ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2023: 562
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2023: 562
Instance
Court of Appeal The Hague
Date of judgment
04-04-2023
Date of publication
11-04-2023
Case
200.311.504/01
Formal relationships
First instance:
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 1609
, Reinforcement/confirmation
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
IPR;Bridal gift according to Iranian law.Payability and assignability of the agreed bridal gift.Bridal gift as compensation for divorce?Payment in gold coins (Bahar Azadi) or euros?
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
EB 2023/64
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Appeal The Hague
Team Family
Case number: 200.311.504/01
Case/roll number Court: C/09/611517/HA SA 21-425
judgment of April 4, 2023
regarding
[appellant],
residing in [residence],
appellant,
hereinafter referred to as: the man,
Lawyer: K. Mohasselzadeh in Voorburg, Municipality of Leidschendam-Voorburg
in return for
[respondent],
living in [place of residence 2], municipality [municipality],
The respondent,
hereinafter referred to as: the woman,
Lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam
Proceedings
By exploitation of 23 May 2022, the man appealed of the judgment of 23 February 2022 from the court of The Hague (ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 1609), pointed out between the woman as plaintiff and the man as a defendant.
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to r.o.1.1 of the contested judgment.
In the memorial of Great, the man formulated seven complaints against the contested judgment.
In response, the woman contradicted the grievances of the man.
Subsequently, the parties each took a deed.
The man has found his process file, after which judgment was determined to date.
The Court of Appeal requested the decision of 16 December 2022 to be mentioned below from the District Court of The Hague.This decision is known and is part of the process file.
Assessment of the appeal
Facts
1. The relevant facts are as follows.The man and the woman are married to each other on [marriage date] 2017 in [marriage place], Iran.In a notarial marriage certificate, the parties have made agreements about, among other things, the bridal gift that the man owes to the woman.The sworn Dutch translation of the marriage certificate mentions on page 5:
Bridal gift / dowry
A copy of the Holy Quran, a mirror, a few candlesticks and one hundred and fourteen / 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins.
The holy Quran, a mirror, a few candlesticks are given to the woman.
The one hundred and fourteen gold coins are owed to the wife in whole and must be met on request.
This clause says: "I have read the mention under the heading bridal gift and I accept all points," followed by the names and signatures of both parties.
2. You can read on page 15 of the marriage certificate:
The way the bridal gift should be paid
1) Bridal gift: As stated under the heading bridal gift / dowry
The man is obliged to meet this in the whole and when the bride demands them to meet her.
Under this clause are the signatures of both parties.
The following, on page 15 of the marriage certificate, was not signed by the parties:
2) Bridal gift
The man is obliged if he can afford it financially, to pay this to the woman.
3. By order of 8 April 2021 of the District Court of The Hague, the divorce between the parties was pronounced and - by way of ancillary provision - was declared that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.Both parties appealed for this decision with regard to the declaration of law.By decision of 23 February 2022, this Court declared the parties inadmissible in their appeal, because the divorce was not registered in time in the registers of civil status.
4. By decision of 16 December 2022, the District Court of The Hague - again - pronounced the divorce between the parties.Furthermore, the court has declared that Iranian law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.
First instance
5. In the first instance, the woman demanded that the man is ordered to pay 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins or an equivalent equal to € 96,255.90 on the basis of the agreements made in the marriage certificate.The man has put forward a defense against this.
6. By judgment of 23 February 2022, the court decided The Hague as follows:
3.1.
condemns the man for a transfer of 114 Bahar Azadi gold coins to women;
3.2.
declares this judgment so far enforceable in stock;
3.3.
compensates the costs of the proceedings between parties, in the sense that each party has its own
bears costs;
3.4.
Displays the lake or different advanced.
Appeal7. The man appealed in time to the judgment of 23 February 2022 (further: contested judgment).He claims on appeal that the Court of Appeal will, insofar as possible, to be enforceable in stock, the contested judgment will annul and, again, reject the woman's claim;Costs legally.
8. The woman has concluded that the Court of Appeal will reject the claim of the man on appeal and condemn him in the costs of the appeal.
Discussion of the complaints
9. The man's apple falls into seven complaints.In essence, he argues that the court wrongly ordered him to pay 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins to the woman.
Applicable right to the bridal gift;consequences of the Afghan nationality of women
10. In complaint 1, the man turns against r.o.2.5 of the contested judgment, in which the court ruled that the agreement of the parties in the marriage certificate about the bridal gift must be assessed under Iranian law, because the marriage of the parties in [marriage place] has been completed.According to the court, the circumstance that the woman did not have the Iranian but Afghan nationality at the time of the wedding ceremony does not change that.The man does not dispute the court judgment of the court.He acknowledges that the woman's claim for payment of the bridal gift must be assessed under Iranian law.However, he argues that the court has failed to state the consequences of the consequences of the Afghan nationality of women according to the applicable Iranian law for the claimability and allocation of women's claim.
11. The Court considers as follows.In r.o.2.4 to 2.6 of the contested judgment, the court has determined the applicable law on the claim of the woman to pay the bridal gift;See also the heading above r.o.2.4 ("Applicable law").The man acknowledges that the court has ruled on correct grounds that the woman's claim must be assessed under Iranian law, so that it must also be assumed on appeal.The man's complaint does not mean that the Afghan nationality of women at the time of the wedding ceremony would have led to another applicable right to the woman's claim for payment of the bridal gift.The man has failed to substantiate what consequences the Afghan nationality of women would have according to the applicable Iranian law for the due and admissibility of women's claim.The man has not met his obligation to assemble.
Relationship of the matrimonial property regime to the bridal gift
12. In complaint 2, the man challenges r.o.2.6 of the contested judgment, in which the court, with reference to Court of The Hague 28 May 2019, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2019: 1818 - in short - has ruled that the bridal gift must be seen separately from the rule of marriage, so that the courtthe present case will not be maintained pending the outcome of the appeal against the judgment of the court in the above under r.o.3 The aforementioned decision of 8 April 2021 that the matrimonial property regime of the parties is governed by Dutch law.
13. The Court understands that this complaint does not turn against the court's decision not to keep the present case pending the appeal against the decision of 8 April 2021. The Court has already noticed that the appeal against the aforementionedIn the meantime, decision has led to a decision of this court of 23 February 2022 in which the parties have been declared inadmissible in their appeal.The man's complaint means that the court for her opinion in r.o.2.6 wrongly connected to Hof The Hague 28 May 2019, because that case differs from the present case in terms of facts and circumstances.For example, the man mentions that the civil marriage of the spouses in that case was dissolved, while in the present case - at the time of drawing up the appeal, see r.o.4 - is not the case.
14. The Court considers as follows.The core of the judgment of the court in r.o.2.6 is that the bridal gift cannot be qualified as matrimonial property law, so that the outcome of the procedure about - which right applies to - the Marriage Agency Regime of the parties will not affect the assessment of the woman's claim for payment of the bridal gift.That judgment of the court is right.This Court has previously ruled that the bridal gift results from a legal relationship
sui generis
, among other things in the aforementioned decision of 28 May 2019. The fact that the case that gave rise to that decision deviates from the present case in terms of facts and circumstances does not alter the opinion of the court that the bridal gift cannot be qualified in marriage property.In that respect, the complaint fails.15. Insofar as the man would like to argue that the woman is only entitled to the agreed bridal gift when the marriage of the parties is dissolved (no. 13, memorial of grievances), the man ignores that this restrictive condition does not return to the marriage certificateFrom parties.In the marriage certificate (p. 5), the parties agreed that the wedding gift is owed to the woman and at her request the woman must be paid (see also page 15: 'The man is obliged to do this [the bridal, court] inThe whole and when the bride demands them to meet her ').This is in accordance with Article 1082 of the Iranian Civil Code, from which it follows that the woman is the owner of the agreed bridal gift from the moment of the wedding ceremony.
16. Furthermore, the man argues that the bridal gift belongs to the woman, but that the debt that the man must enter into for paying the bridal gift falls into the matrimonial property community and must be divided between the parties (no. 14, Memorie van Grieven).This argument does not apply.The man misunderstands that the present case only relates to the bridal gift.The matrimonial property settlement between the parties is not in favor of this case.
Due and admissibility of the bridal gift
17. complaint 3 turns against r.o.2.7 of the contested judgment, in which the court ruled that the claim of the woman to pay the bridal gift is at all times, both during and after marriage.The fact that the parties are now - based on the decision of 8 April 2021, see r.o.3 - Being separated does not mean that the woman's claim is no longer due and payable.The man argues that the court has failed to investigate the intention of the parties to agree on the bridal gift, whereby he also points to the other agreements made in the marriage certificate.Furthermore, according to the man, the court would have failed to make a distinction between the payability and the assignability of the woman's claim.When assessing the woman's claim, the court should have taken into account how the Iranian court would assess this claim.
18. The Court considers as follows.On the basis of the agreements made in the marriage certificate, the court has assessed the claim of the woman with regard to the bridal gift in accordance with the applicable Iranian law.Insofar as the man would argue that the marriage certificate contains provisions that stand in the way of the assignability of the woman's claim, the man has not made clear what provisions are involved.The Court itself was also unable to find any starting points in the marriage certificate that support the man's argument.Insofar as the man would argue that the Iranian court would have assessed the woman's claim otherwise than the court on the basis of the specific circumstances of the case, the man did not substantiate this argument at least insufficiently.
19. Insofar as the man still argues that the court has wrongly applied Dutch law instead of Iranian law (no. 16, memory of grievances), the complaint lacks factual basis.In r.o.2.5 Of the contested judgment, the court explicitly stipulated that Iranian law applies to the woman's claim.The Court of Appeal has not shown that the court subsequently applied Dutch law in the substantive assessment of the woman's claim.
20. Grief 4 turns against the judgment of the court in r.o.2.8 of the contested judgment, that the circumstance that the woman had initially submitted a request in the divorce procedure regarding the bridal gift but that request later withdrawn, does not mean that she can no longer make a claim on that because the court is not yet overThis claim has ruled.According to the complaint, the court has wrongly assessed the consequences of withdrawing the request for payment of the bridal gift by the woman in the context of the divorce proceedings under Dutch law.According to the man, the consequences of the referremented withdrawal should be assessed under Iranian law.
21. This complaint also fails.With the withdrawal of its request for payment of the bridal gift in the context of the divorce procedure, the woman, in the opinion of the Court, did not give up her right to the bridal gift.This requires that the woman unambiguously abandons the bridal dipping her hair, which is not the case in this case.That this would be different to Iranian law has not substantiated the man in any way and the court has not been proven either.
Bridal gift as a compensation for divorce22. In complaint 5, the man challenges r.o.2.9 to 2.11 of the contested judgment.In these considerations, the court addresses the man's position that the woman in Iran cannot get divorce other than by offering compensation to the man, because she has not met her obligations from the marriage certificate.Because it is customary in Iran that the bridal gift is only paid for a divorce, according to the man, this compensation would in this case consist of giving up the claim of women on the bridal gift.See also the official report of the hearing at first instance of January 17, 2022, p. 3, where Mr. Mohasselzadeh notes on behalf of the man: "She [the woman, court] did not meet her duty at all and if she went to IranianWant to divorce rights it needs permission from Mr [appellant].That is only possible for compensation.That means abandoning the bridal gift. "The court rejected this argument of the man in r.o.2.11, because - in short - the bridal gift belongs to the wife's ability and she can claim it at any time.
23. In his complaint, the man repeats his position from the first instance.He further explains this as follows.If the woman wishes to separate Iranian law, she must compensate for the man for this.This follows from Iranian customary law.Although the woman is entitled to the bridal gift, it refrains if the man gives permission for the divorce.This is a strategy for women to bring about a divorce in Iran.In this case, the woman has given up her right to the bridal gift by actually leaving the relationship and leaving the marital home.According to the man, in exchange for the bridal gift, the woman obliged herself to stay in marriage with the man and only put an end to the marriage if certain conditions are met.The man argues that the court wrongly did not take this into account when assessing the woman's claim.
24. The Court understands this complaint of the man so that he argues that according to Iranian customary law the man needs permission from the man to separate and that the man can give this permission in exchange for compensation, which in this case consists ofThe distance that the woman makes of her right to the bridal gift.The court considers as follows.No conditions are stated in the marriage certificate with regard to the liability of the agreed bridal gift.On the basis of the marriage certificate, the woman is entitled to the bridal gift, regardless of whether she has adhered to her marital obligations towards the man and regardless of whether there is a divorce.She can claim the man's bridal gift when she wishes.The Court of Appeal wants to assume that the woman could give up her right to the bridal gift, but that she is also obliged to be able to separate from the man, the Court of Appeal rejects anyway.Insofar as such an obligation would follow from Iranian customary law, as the man states, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this is contrary to the fundamentally held right of the spouses in the Netherlands to separate from each other.
25. Furthermore, the man argues that the woman did not explain why she did not have the divorce decision of 8 April 2021 registered in the registers of the civil status, withdrew the claim for payment of the bridal gift and then set up again, andShe started a divorce procedure after the inadmissibility of her appeal against the divorce decision.The court ignores this argument, because the man himself could also have argued that the divorce decision would be registered in the registers of the civil status.
26. For the rest, the complaint builds on what the man has already put forward in complaint 4.
27. complaint 6 relates tor.o.2.12 and 2.13 of the contested judgment, in which the court considered that her opinion that the woman is entitled to the bridal gift does not dismiss the fact that the man can demand compensation from the woman - see r.o.2.13 - If she wants a divorce in Iran.After all, the man can still desire this compensation if the woman in Iran wants the divorce, even if he may have already paid the bridal to the woman, according to the court.In his complaint, the man argues that the court did not reasons on the basis of which legal system it has come to this judgment.According to the man, the court should have checked how the Iranian court would judge the woman's claim in the light of the man's argument about the woman's compensation.Furthermore, the man argues that the court did not take sufficient account of the intentions of the parties in the agreed bridal gift.Finally, the man points out that it cannot simply be assumed that the woman will repay the bridal of bridal to the man if the Iranian court would judge that the man is entitled to compensation in the context of a divorce in Iran.
28. The Court considers as follows.The use of the present procedure is the claim of the woman to pay the bridal gift by the man on the basis of the agreements made in the marriage certificate.As the Court of Appeal has previously considered, the marriage certificate does not contain any restriction with regard to the right to and the payability of the bridal gift.The agreed bridal gift comes to the woman and she can claim it at all times, so also during the marriage.The man's argument is already failing because the complaint takes the situation that the divorce is pronounced in Iran.This situation is not currently on the agenda.Now that the marriage certificate does not contain any restrictions that stand in the way of the woman's right to the bridal gift and its due and payability, a compensation of the man in the form of the praising the woman's right to the bridal in any case canare not in the context of the present procedure.
29. But also the man's argument does not apply.The Court points to the following for this.In the marriage certificate (p. 9), the parties agreed that the man gives the woman permission to submit a request for divorce to the court in the cases mentioned under 1 to 12 (pages 10 to 14).These conditions are relevant if the woman in Iran would ask for divorce.From the report
No longer chained to the marriage
From the University of Maastricht (Part I/II, October 2018, p. 130-131), where the man has appealed to first instance, it follows that there are various options for the woman to separate in Iran, namely-Insofar as - (i) The woman calls in the recognition of a Dutch divorce decision in Iran, or (ii) the woman asks divorce from the court in Iran on one of the grounds stated in the marriage certificate, without dependent on itOf the cooperation of the man, or (iii) at the request of the woman, the man rejects the woman, whether or not in exchange for compensation by the woman.It follows that the compensation by the woman, in the form of distance from her right to the bridal gift, is not in all cases a condition for a divorce in Iran.In other words, it is conceivable that the woman can also get a divorce in Iran without having to give up her entitlement to the bridal gift.
Gold coins or euros?
30. Finally, the man with complaint 7 opposes the judgment of the court in r.o.2.14 of the contested judgment, that only the claim for transfer of 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins will be granted because the woman has insufficiently substantiated her claim with regard to the equivalent in euros of the Gold Coins.According to the man, this judgment is incorrect for various reasons.
31. To begin with, the man argues that parties in the marriage certificate have agreed a bridal gift of 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins and not an equivalent in euros.In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the complaint lacks actual basis insofar as the man argues that the court should have rejected the claim for payment of the equivalent of 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins for this reason.From r.o.2.14 of the contested judgment it follows that the claim of the woman to order the man to pay in euros of the equivalent of 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins has been rejected.32. Furthermore, the man argues that the woman's claim should have been rejected because it was indefinite, since the specifications of the agreed Bahar Azadi Gold Coins would be unclear.The woman argues that a Bahar Azadi gold coin in Iran is a recognized currency, issued by the Iranian central bank, the specifications of which are set, namely a diameter of 22 millimeters and a weight of 8,13598 grams, of which 7,32238 grams of pure goldwith a fineness of 0.900 (no. 7.1, response).The court considers as follows.In the absence of other agreements on the specifications of the Golden Coins, the Bahar Azadi Golden Coins agreed by the parties in the marriage certificate, in the opinion of the Court, concern the Golden Coins that are known in Iran with the specifications mentioned by the woman.This means that the man's argument fails.
33. Subsequently, the man argues that the court wrongly granted the full number of the 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins, because the Iranian court would reject the claim for payment of gold coins above a number of 110.Furthermore, the man argues that the Iranian court takes the personal situation of the man into account when assessing the number of gold coins and the method of payment thereof, which the court would have left in this case.The woman argues that the marriage certificate does not show that the claim for payment of the gold coins can be limited to a number of 110 pieces.Furthermore, the woman points out that the man did not make it clear why his personal situation would justify that the woman's claim can be assigned to 110 pieces of the 114 gold coins advanced.
34. The Court considers as follows.The Court of Appeal is known that Iranian law offers the possibility for the man to ask the court to make a payment arrangement for the payment of the agreed gold coins above the number of 110, if his financial situation gives cause for this.See also Hof Arnhem-Leeuwarden 2 July 2020, ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2020: 5397.The marriage certificate of the parties also contains a clause on page 5 ("The man is obliged if he can afford it financially, this [the bridal, court] to pay the woman in the whole").However, this clause was not signed by the parties.Whatever the case of that, the Court will not take into account the man's argument on this point, because he has not stated which facts and circumstances must be taken into account in this context.Before the Court, it was therefore not stated that the man is unable to pay the superior of 110 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins to the woman.
35. For the rest, the complaint contains a repetition of complaints that the man has previously submitted.
Ask the International Legal Institute?
36. By deed of 11 November 2022, the man asked the court to maintain the case, so that the International Legal Institute can be asked questions with regard to the bridal gift.By deed of December 12, 2022, the woman announced that it would not agree.
37. The Court sees no reason to ask the International Legal Institute with regard to the bridal gift, because the Court considers it sufficiently informed in order to be able to assess the woman's claim under Iranian law.
Proceedings
38. In view of the legal relationship between the parties and the nature of the dispute, the Court will compensate for the costs of the proceedings on appeal, in the sense that each parties will bear their own costs.
Decision
The Council:
confirms the contested judgment;
compensates for the costs of the proceedings on appeal, in the sense that each party will bear its own costs;
rejects it more or otherwise advanced.
This judgment was given by mrs.F. Ibili, E.A.Mink and C.M.WarnaAR, and signed and pronounced in public on April 4, 2023 by J.E.H.M.Pinckaers, role councilor, in the presence of the clerk.