ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 3160
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 3160
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Date of judgment
26-06-2020
Date of publication
30-06-2020
Case
13/001079-20
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Special characteristics
First instance - Multiple
Contents indication
The suspect has been convicted of simple abuse
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Public Law Department
Teams criminal law
Parquet number: 13/001079-20 (Promis)
Date of judgment: June 26, 2020
Judgment of the Amsterdam District Court, Multiple Chamber, in the criminal case against:
[suspect],
born in [birthplace] ([birth country]) on [birthday] 1981,
Without well-known permanent place of residence in the Netherlands,
now detained in the judicial complex [location] in [place].
The suspect was present in the handling of his criminal case.
1
The investigation at the hearing
This judgment was given in response to the investigation at the hearing of 12 June 2020.
The court has taken note of the indictment changed at the hearing, the claim of the public prosecutor mr. F.P.HOLTHUIS AND OF WHAT SAVEMEN and his counsel, H. Jawaheri.
2
Indictment
The suspect is - after change - accused of:
Primary:
Attempted manslaughter of [person] on January 1, 2020
In the alternative:
Serious abuse of [person] on January 1, 2020
More in the alternative:
Attempted serious abuse of [person] on January 1, 2020
Extremely alternative:
Mistreatment of [person] on January 1, 2020
The complete indictment is included in Annex I that is attached to this judgment and is considered inserted here.
3
Appreciation of proof
3.1
The position of the Public Prosecution Service
The public prosecutor has taken the position that the accused should be acquitted of the attempted manslaughter of [person].On the other hand, it can be proven that the accused has been guilty of the serious abuse of [person].
The file shows that the suspect put the victim in his thigh and that an artery was hit.Due to the rapid intervention of a roommate and the care providers, it did not end on a larger drama.However, the victim has lost a lot of blood, he has been out of consciousness and he had surgery on his leg.The accused also stated at the hearing that the victim told him by telephone that he had a serious injury.Due to the nature of the injury and the need for medical intervention, the public prosecutor considers proven that the accused has been guilty of serious abuse.
3.2
The position of the defense
The lawyer has argued acquittal of the primary, alternative and more in the alternative.
The suspect did not realize at all what the consequences of his actions could be.There was no intent, at least there could not be legal and convincingly proven that there was intent.The suspect did not consciously accept the considerable chance that the victim would lose their lives.This is also apparent from the fact that the victim was put in his leg that will usually not die a person.The actions of the suspect were not aimed at allowing a certain consequence to come into effect.From the statements or behaviors of the accused before, during and after the incident, it cannot be deduced that he wanted to deliberately rob the victim of life.He also never had the intention of injuring the victim.The suspect was under the influence of alcohol and drugs and therefore insufficiently able to oversee the consequences of his actions.Because there is no serious physical injury, the accused must also be acquitted of the (attempted) heavy abuse.
With regard to the charged mistreatment, the lawyer refers to the judgment of the court.
3.3
The judgment of the court
3.3.1
Acquittal of the primary, alternative and most alternatively charged
With the public prosecutor and the defense, the court is of the opinion that the primarily charged person has not been legal and convincingly proven, so that the suspect will be acquitted without further statement of reasons.In order to be able to arrive at a statement of provisions of (attempted) serious abuse, it will have to be established that at least there has been actions with which the suspect has accepted the considerable chance that the victim could obtain serious physical injury as a result of these acts.The defense has argued that the defendant was unable to oversee the scope of his behaviors because he was under the influence of alcohol and drugs.The court rejects this defense.The accused is responsible for taking consciousness -changing agents such as alcohol and he also knew himself that he could show aggressive behavior under the influence of alcohol and drugs.He was previously convicted in Poland for criminal offenses that he has committed under the influence.Being under the influence of drugs and alcohol does not mean that the suspect has not had any insight into his actions and what could be the consequences of it.
However, the court is not of the opinion that there was intent in the accused on inflicting serious physical injury, not even in a conditional sense.The criminal file cannot be determined and otherwise it has not been shown where the suspect stabbed the victim [person] in his leg and what injury the victim suffered.There is no medical explanation in the file, but also not a statement from the victim himself.The only person who has explained the injury is the witness [witness].He stated that the doctor said that an important blood vessel has been hit, but that the outlook was good.However, it remains unclear what exactly the injury was.Nothing is also known about the duration of healing.As a result, the court has too little information to be able to assess whether there has been (has been) of serious physical injury to the victim.In the absence of sufficient information about the place where the victim was hit and what injury he suffered, the court cannot give an opinion on the presence of (conditional) intent on inflicting serious physical injury.For that reason, the accused must be acquitted of the serious abuse charged in the alternative and the more subsidiary attempt at severe abuse.
3.3.2
The judgment on the extremely subsidiary charged
The court comes to a proven declaration of the extremely in the alternative. Simple abuse.The suspect has announced that he stabbed the victim and follows from official reports and statements from witnesses that the victim was injured.
4
Proven
On the basis of the evidence contained in Annex II, the court considers that the suspect
On January 1, 2020 in Aalsmeer [person] mistreated by putting him in his (upper) leg with a knife.
5
The criminality of the fact
According to the law, the proven fact that is proven is punishable.The existence of a justification has not become plausible.
6
The criminality of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the criminality of the suspect.The suspect is therefore punishable.
7
Motivation of penalties and measures
7.1
The requirement of the public prosecutor
The public prosecutor has demanded that the accused will be sentenced to a 24 -month prison sentence for the fact that he has proven in the alternative.
7.2
The position of the defense
The defense has requested to take the personal circumstances of the suspect into account in the punishment.In the Netherlands, the suspect has not come into contact with the police and the judiciary before.If the accused is convicted, the defense requests the suspect to impose a treatment for his addiction problems.The suspect has already taken the first steps for his treatment.
7.3
The judgment of the court
The punishment to be referred to hereafter is in accordance with the seriousness of the proven proven, the circumstances under which this was committed and the person of the accused, as it turned out at the hearing.When choosing to impose a punishment and the court, the court had the following considered in particular when determining its duration.The suspect was guilty of serious abuse.Under the influence of alcohol and drugs, he stabbed the victim with a large kitchen knife in his leg.The victim has lost a lot of blood by stabbing and also lost consciousness.Under the influence of alcohol, a New Year's Eve party, where the suspect was present as a visitor, ended in a drama that several housemates of the victim were confronted with.The fact that the suspect can go so far as to take a knife and stabs his friend is very worrying.Although the victim has not reported a report, experience shows that victims of these kinds of criminal offenses can still experience the adverse psychological consequences of what happened to them for a long time.The court charges the suspect.
The criminal record of the suspect of 25 February 2020 shows that the suspect has not been convicted in the Netherlands before.The suspect has been convicted in Poland and Germany, also for similar facts.
The court has taken note of the Pro Justitia psychological report of 11 March 2020, prepared by GZ psychologist M.L.Sikkens.This shows that suspicious disorders have been found in the use of alcohol, cannabis and amphetamine.There are no indications for a serious psychiatric disorder or intellectual problems.The excessive substance use in the run -up to the indictment must be placed in substance use in the context of established disorders.Based on these disorders, at least the structural addiction and possible underlying problems, the accused has reduced control over his substance use and must be assumed by a reduced freedom of choice in this area.The psychologist sees instructions for reduced attraction.On the one hand, an effective adaptation of disorders in substance use seems to be able to have a direct and crucial result on the risk of recidivism.On the other hand, outside a controlled context such as current detention, full abstinence can hardly be guaranteed/remain guaranteed.Some chance of (moments) of excessive substance use and from there an increased risk of recidivism will continue to exist.The psychologist sees insufficient indications for a clinical treatment process, while an outpatient process will always entail some degree of risk.In that sense, outpatient interventions are expected to contribute to a decrease in the risk of recidivism, but cannot fully neutralize this.It is problematic that the accused is not embedded in Dutch society and does not have a suitable place of residence and income.
The court has also taken note of the probation report of Inforsa of 16 March 2020, prepared by R. Nuyens.It states that the suspect has been detained three times in Poland.Since 2017, the suspect has been staying in the Netherlands and at the end of 2019 he lost his work and therefore his housing.In view of the lack of rights to social provisions, the probation service sees no options for limiting the risks or changing behavior with interventions or supervision.The probation service recommends imposing an unconditional prison sentence so that it can be achieved in this way that the suspect remains abstinent of resources, which may increase the chance of re -socialization.
When determining the punishment, the court takes into account that the suspect took responsibility for his actions and that he was reduced to be imputable.In the disadvantage of the accused, the court takes into account the fact that the accused was previously convicted of similar facts abroad, also under the influence of alcohol and drugs.The suspect was a warned man.In view of all the aforementioned circumstances, the court will therefore impose an unconditional prison sentence of ten months.
8
Seizure
The following objects have been seized under the suspect:
1. STK MES (5861591)
1. Stk Broek (5861584)
1. STK shirt (5861589)
8.1
Withdrawal from traffic
Now that with the help of the knife it has been proven to be committed and it is of such a nature that the uncontrolled possession thereof is contrary to the law or the public interest, this object is extracted from traffic.
8.2
Return
With regard to the seized pants and shirts, a burden to return to the suspect will be given.
9
Applicable legal regulations
The punishment and measure to be imposed are based on Articles 36b, 36c, 36d and 300 of the Criminal Code.
10
Decision
The court will reach the following decision on the basis of the foregoing.
Declares the primary, alternative and more in the alternative not proven and releases the suspect.It is declared that the accused committed the extremely in the alternative, as stated above in section 4.
Declares not proven what has been charged to the accused more or differently than it has been declared proven and the suspect releases it.
The proven explained yields:
abuse
Declares the proven to be punishable.
Explains the suspect,
[suspect]
, punishable for that.
Condemns the suspect to a prison sentence of
10 (ten) months
.
Orders that the time that the convicted person for the execution of this ruling (and in pre -trial detention) is spent, will be deducted from the execution of that sentence.
Explains traffic:
1. STK MES (5861591)
Ordered the refund to the suspect of:
1. Stk Broek (5861584)
1. STK shirt (5861589)
This verdict was given by
mr. W.M.C.van den Berg, chairman,
Mrs.P.L.C.M.Ficq and N.J.Koene, judges,
In the presence of L.J.of all, clerk,
and pronounced at the public hearing of this court of 26 June 2020.
[...]
[...]
[...]
[...]