ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2023: 9853
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2023: 9853
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
28-06-2023
Date of publication
02-08-2023
Case
C/09/633860/HA SA 22-705 and C/09/633861/HA SA 22-706
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
Ground shop
,, "
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Iranian law.Bridal gift.Claim transfer Bahar Azadi gold coins, or value thereof in euros, assigned.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
Team Trade Team
Case number: C/09/633860/HA SA 22-705
Case number: C/09/633861/HA SA 22-706
Judgment of June 28, 2023
On C/09/633860/HA SA 22-705 and on C/09/633861/HA SA 22-706
[plaintiff]
in [place 1],
Plaintiff,
lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
[defendant]
in [place 2],
defendant,
lawyer: K. Mohasselzadeh in Voorburg,
The court will subsequently indicate the case with case and roll number C/09/633860/HA SA 22-705 (about the bridal gift) below as "case about the bridal gift"
The court will subsequently indicate the case with case and roll number C/09/633861/HA SA 22-706 (about the divorce) below as "Case about the divorce"
Parties are hereinafter referred to as "the woman" and "the man".
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
In the case about the bridal gift
:
- the summons of August 22, 2022 with productions 1 to 5;
- the conclusion of answer;
- The interlocutory judgment of 1 March 2023 in which an oral treatment was ordered.
In the case about the divorce
:
- the summons of August 22, 2022 with productions 1 to 7;
- the conclusion of answer;
- The interlocutory judgment of 1 March 2023 in which an oral treatment was ordered.
1.2.
In both cases, the oral treatment was held on 12 May 2013, notes made by the clerk that were included the court file.
1.3.
At the hearing, the cases were ex officio (as referred to in Article 222 DCCP) and dealt together.The following was considered for this.In the event of devoted cases that are pending before the same judge, the court may decide ex officio that the cases are added (Article 222, paragraph 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure).The subjects that are discussed in both cases stem from the same complex facts, namely the marriage between the parties, it is, in the opinion of the court, efficient to handle and assess the cases at the same time.
1.4.
Finally, a date for judgment has been determined.
2
The facts
In the case about the bridal gift and in the case about the divorce
2.1.
The woman and the man got married on January 6, 1989 in Tehran, Iran.The parties have concluded a notarial marriage certificate during the marriage closure.In the marriage certificate - translated into Dutch and insofar as relevant - the following is included:
"Double: One holy Quran worth 10,000 Rial, plus 185 Bahar Azadi Gold coins with a free market current value of 18,500.00 Rial that at all times remains affordable to the woman in gold coins or the aforementioned current value."
2.2.
By decision of the Central Netherlands Court, location Utrecht, of 3 March 2022, the divorce between the parties was pronounced.Parties are still married to each other under Iranian law.
3
The dispute
In the case about the bridal gift
3.1.
The woman progresses - in summary - the man enforceable in stock by judgment:
1. Can be ordered to transfer 185 (one hundred and five) Bahar Azadi Gold coins with the following specific information: Size 1 with a weight of 8.13598 (gram), with a net weight of pure gold 7,32238 (gram), 22 mm with the purity of0.9000 or an equivalent thereof equal to € 93,739.50;
2. To be ordered to pay the costs and follow -up costs, plus the statutory interest from fourteen days after the date of the judgment to be considered until the day of overall payment.
3.2.
The woman based on her claim that agreements have been included between the parties in the marriage certificate and that, on that basis, she can claim a transfer of 185 Bahar Azadi or an equivalent equal to € 93,739.50.
3.3.
The man defends.The man concludes inadmissibility of the woman, or to reject the women's claims, with enforceable in stock declared conviction of the woman in the costs of this procedure.
3.4.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, if necessary.
In the case about the divorce
3.5.
The woman is progressing - in summary - the man enforceable in stock by judgment:1. to order to provide its complete and unconditional cooperation within fourteen days of service of the judgment in the creation of the Iranian religious divorce, including in any case the appearance during a (still to be made) agreement with the spiritual, Mr [name], and registering the divorce at the Iranian embassy in The Hague, forfeiting a penalty of € 500.00 per day or part of the day that the man refuses to meet this obligation, with a maximum of €500.00.00;
2. to order to provide its complete and unconditional cooperation within fourteen days of service of the judgment in applying for a new passport for the child at the Iranian Embassy in The Hague, forfeiting a penalty of € 500.00 per dayOr part of the day that the man refuses to meet this obligation, with a maximum of € 500.00.00;
3. To be ordered to pay the costs of this procedure that, if these costs are not paid within seven days after the date of this judgment, statutory interest will be due on this from the eighth day after the day of the judgment.
3.6.
The woman based on her claim that the relationship between parties is sustainably broken and that the Dutch divorce decision has no legal force with the Iranian authorities without the cooperation of the man.According to the woman, refusing cooperation in the dissolution of Iranian marriage is unlawful.
3.7.
In the conclusion of an answer, the man has defended a defense, but confirmed to cooperate in the creation of the Iranian religious divorce at the hearing.
3.8.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, if necessary.
4
The assessment
In the case about the divorce
4.1.
On the oral treatment, the man has stated that he was willing to cooperate in the creation of the Iranian religious divorce.In concrete terms, the parties have agreed that the woman makes a request for divorce under Iranian law via the Iranian embassy in The Hague.She must consult the necessary documents for this.After that, both an appointment is made at a spiritual and the Iranian embassy in The Hague.The woman and the man must both appear on those agreements and sign and consult the required documents.The parties will further coordinate this.The possible costs involved in the appointment with the spiritual and/or embassy will be shared at Helfte.In addition, there is an agreement that if the spiritual and/or embassy asks for the bridal gift, and at that time there is not yet in authority of final judgment of a Dutch court, parties to the spiritual and/or embassy will notifyit is not decided.
4.2.
In view of the foregoing and confirmation of the man that he will cooperate in the creation of the Iranian religious divorce, the woman no longer has an interest in her claim for a conviction of the man for cooperation on pain of a penalty.The woman's lawyer has stated on the oral hearing that the claim for cooperating in obtaining a passport is based on an error for the child.The woman therefore has no interest in this claim either.The claims of the woman in the case about the divorce will therefore be rejected.
In the case about the bridal gift
4.3.
The court will now assess the claim of the wife of transfer of the bridal gift.
What law applies?
4.4.
First of all, the court must assess what right applies to the woman's claim.In a judgment of the Court of Appeal The Hague, it was ruled that the question of the existence of a claim to the bridal gift should be assessed according to the right to which that claim was established (see Court The Hague 26 February 2014, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2014: 486). The bridal gift stems from the marriage concluded by the parties under Iranian law.The provision regarding the bridal gift, which is included in the marriage certificate signed by the parties, must therefore be assessed under Iranian law.
The due and payability of the bridal gift
4.5.
The most far -reaching defense of the man is that the bridal gift is no longer due and payable.According to the man, he left the house at the request of the woman and made the request for divorce.According to the man, in that case there is no longer a right to the bridal gift under Iranian right.Insofar as the right to the bridal date still exists, the Iranian court will, in view of what has happened between the parties, will determine that the man has to pay a lower amount of bridal gift.According to the man, this amount will be almost nil.
4.6.The court considers that a bridal gift under Iranian law in Dutch case law has already been discussed frequently.It can be deduced from this case law that the bridal gift under Iranian law has its own unique character.The woman is the beneficiary and the owner of the bridal gift from the day of the wedding closure.The bridal gift is due at any time, both during and after the marriage (see for example: Hof The Hague 26 February 2014, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2014: 486).It also follows from the marriage certificate concluded between the parties that the bridal gift is payable at all times.To substantiate her claim, the woman also submitted an anonymous report from the International Legal Institute (hereinafter: the IJI report) from another procedure.It follows from the IJI report that paying the bridal gift under Iranian law is not dependent on factors that lie in the behavior of women.According to the man, the IJI report is incorrect and there is an incorrect picture of the bridal gift under Iranian law in Dutch case law.The man, on the other hand, did not substantiate this with, for example, judgments of an Iranian court.In view of the foregoing, the man has insufficiently substantiated the statement that the bridal gift is now no longer due, at least that he can no longer be assigned to the woman.
The Gold Coins
4.7.
The woman is progressing 185 (one hundred -speed) Bahar Azadi Gold coins (hereinafter: Golden Coins) with the following specific information: Size 1 with a weight of 8.13598 (gram), with net weight of pure gold 7,32238 (gram), 22 mm with thePureness of 0.9000 or an equivalent thereof equal to € 93,739.50.According to the man, the marriage certificate does not show that the parties 185 whole gold coins have agreed.There are - among other things - ¼ and ½ Bahar Azadi gold coins.According to the man on the way of the parties, it had, as the parties in mind, had whole coins to agree, actually to write that by adding the word "one" to the provision.Now that that word has not been added, according to the man it does not appear that the parties 185 whole coins (with the aforementioned specifications) have agreed.
4.8.
When explaining the marriage certificate according to Iranian law, the intention of the parties must be met as much as possible.In the event of the lack of clues in the marriage certificate for the contrary, the court assumes that parties with “
185 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins
"185 whole Bahar Azadi meant gold coins.For example, if the parties had meant a ¼ or ½ Bahar Azadi gold coins, it would have been obvious to explicitly include this in the marriage certificate.The man also did not explain what denomination the parties or has been in mind.The court therefore rejects the man's argument.The fact that one whole Golden Bahar Azadi Munt has the specifications mentioned by the woman is not under discussion.
The value of the gold coins
4.9.
The woman states that instead of the gold coins she can also claim the current current value of it in euros.According to the man, the parties in the marriage certificate agreed that the 185 gold coins are worth 18.5 million rial.According to the man, on the basis of the current exchange rates, this amounts to an amount of approximately € 60.00.The man is willing to pay this amount to the woman.
4.10.
For the following reasons, the court rejects the man's argument that the current value of the 185 gold coins in the marriage certificate is set at 18.5 million Rial.It follows from the IJI report that the bridal gift is partly the purpose of guaranteeing the financial security of women.On the oral treatment, the woman stated without being contradicted that Iran has a history of hyperinflation.It is precisely for that reason that a bridal gift is expressed in gold coins, because these coins are (more) stable.If the value of the gold coins is set at an amount in Rial at the start, the interests of the woman are still not guaranteed.The court further considers that if the parties wanted to assume a set (fictional) value of the gold coins, it would not have been obvious to speak of a “
free market current value
".In view of the foregoing, the court therefore assumes that the parties in the marriage certificate wanted to express that the 185 gold coins represented a value of 18.5 million Rial at the time of signing the marriage certificate.This does not detract from the woman's right to claim an amount equal to the current free market of the Golden Coins when claiming the bridal gift.Finally, the court considers that the man has not contradicted that the woman can claim this amount in euros.
4.11.The current daily value of one Bahar Azadi gold coin, with the specifications mentioned under 4.7 et seq., Was set by the woman upon summons with reference to a website at € 506.70.This current current value has not been contradicted by the man.The value of 185 coins therefore amounts to € 93,739.50.The court will therefore, with due observance of the following, assign the claimed amount in euros.
The financial capacity of the man
4.12.
It is not in dispute between the parties that Iranian law leaves very limited space for adjusting or moderating the wedding gift.It follows from the IJI report that only if the bridal gift is more than 110 gold coins, the capacity of the man can be taken into account in the judicial decision on claims with regard to the (delayed) bridal gift that are even higher.A repayment in installments is then possible, for example.
4.13.
The court considers that the man is therefore obliged to pay the equivalent in euros of 110 gold coins to the woman in any case.The court considers about the surplus of 75 coins as follows.
4.14.
The man has stated on the oral treatment about his capacity that he has no work and that he receives benefits.He says he does not have the means to pay a possible claim from the woman.If the man is ordered to pay (part of) the claim, then the man will have to make a payment arrangement anyway.The man does not expect his financial capacity to increase substantially in the coming years.The woman has insufficiently substantiated that the man has insufficient financial capacity to pay the bridal gift.The woman has stated that the man owns real estate in Iran and that he could sell this, but the woman did not make this sufficiently concrete.The court will therefore determine for surplus that payment must be made in installments.The court considers a payment term of one gold coin per year reasonable.
4.15.
In summary, the court will condemn the man to pay the equivalent in euros of 110 gold coins to the woman in one go.This amounts to € 55,737.00.Furthermore, the court will condemn the man to pay the surplus in installments and the equivalent in euros of one gold coin per year, which amounts to € 506.70 per year, starting in January 2025.
In the case about the bridal gift and in the case about the divorce
The costs of the proceedings
4.16.
The starting point is that the costs of the proceedings between the parties are compensated if there is former spouses.Both parties have requested to deviate from this principle, because the costs of the divorce procedure have been made unnecessarily.The court is of the opinion that the woman could and should have presented the two points of the two points of the same to the court.In that sense, there is an unnecessary second procedure.On the other hand, the man was initially committed in the case of divorce by the man, and that he has only promised his cooperation in the creation of the Iranian religious divorce in the oral hearing.As a result, therefore, costs have been made unnecessarily.For the foregoing, the court sees no reason to deviate from the starting point and will therefore compensate for the costs between the parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
5
The decision
The court
In the case about the divorce
5.1.
rejects the progress;
In the case about the bridal gift
5.2.
orders the man to transfer to the woman of 110 Bahar Azadi gold coins size 1, with a weight of 8.13598 (gram), with net weight of pure gold 7,32238 (gram), 22 mm with the purity of 0.9000;or its value in euros from
€ 55,737.00;
5.3.
condemns the man for transfer to the woman of 75 Bahar Azadi gold coins size 1, with a weight of 8,13598 (gram), with net weight of pure gold 7,32238 (gram), 22 mm with the purity of 0.9000, with a period ofat least one Bahar Azadi gold coin per year, starting in January 2025;Or the value of it in euros of € 506.70 per gold coin;
5.4.
explains the convictions under 5.2 and 5.3 enforceable in stock;
In the case about the bridal gift and in the case about the divorce
5.5.
compensates for the costs of the proceedings between parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.This verdict was given by J.J.Kuipers and pronounced in public on 28 June 2023.