ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2021: 5654
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2021: 5654
Instance
Rotterdam District Court
Date of judgment
17-06-2021
Date of publication
23-06-2021
Case
C/10/618604/KG SA 21-379
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
Summary proceedings
Contents indication
Summary proceedings.Dispute about sales of marital home.Appointments from divorce agreement must be met, so that the property must be sold to a third party.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Rotterdam District Court
Team Handel and Haven
Case number / Role number: C / 10/618604 / KG SA 21-379
Judgment in summary proceedings of 17 June 2021
in the case of
[plaintiff]
,, "
residing in [residence plaintiff],
Plaintiff,
Lawyer mr. H.P.Schouten in The Hague,
in return for
[defendant]
,, "
residing in [residence of the defendant],
defendant,
Lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam.
Parties are hereinafter referred to as the woman and the man.
1.
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the summons of 20 May 2021, with productions,
-
The man's productions,
-
the oral treatment, held on 3 June 2021,
-
The pleading memorandum of mr. Schouten.
1.2.
Finally, a judgment was determined.
2.
The facts
2.1.
The parties were married to Community of Goods on 27 November 2013.
2.2.
By decision of this court of 20 April 2020, the divorce between the parties was pronounced.The divorce was established on September 29, 2020 by registering the decision in the registers of the Civil Registry.
2.3.
Of the divorce decision, a divorce agreement signed by the parties on 6 March 2020 is part.It stipulates:
“(...)
Article 5. The marital home
5.1
The man was dated 1 October 2013 through deed of delivery - made by Van Heeswijk Notarissen N.V. - became the owner of the house at [address], [postcode] Hoogvliet Rotterdam.Due to the marriage of parties (27-11-2013), the home falls within the community of property.The marital home is spread to the man after divorce.Only the man becomes the owner of the house after payment in accordance with 5.2.To the woman.All the burdens of the home, and the associated obligations, will rest on the man.This included the compensation insurance policy with BNP Paribas Cardif and Credit Life International as well as the life insurance policy at N.V. Argenta-Life Nederland.
5.2
For the home, Quion Mortgage Mediation B.V., acting under the name Hypotrust, provided an annuity mortgage of € 119,000.
5.3
The surplus value of the marital home, after deducting the mortgage loan, is half to the parties.The man is obliged to pay half of the surplus value to the woman once.
An amount of € 3,000 (in words: three thousand euros) will be deducted, in favor of the man
.The house is dated October 23, 2019 by Synchro Makelaardij B.V.Appealed at € 195,000,- parties both agreed to this valuation.
5.4
The notary will be requested to grant the marital home, after the registration of the divorce in the registers of the Civil Registry, to the man by delivery of the owner part of the woman to the man under the same grant of half of the surplus value (
With deduction of Euro 3,000,- Say: three thousand euros
) to the woman.
The man will notify the woman and demonstrate to the woman within 1 month after the date of the divorce decision whether he will receive the financing for the takeover of the owner's part of the woman and the payment of the surplus value.If there is no option within this period of 1 month of financing, the property on Funda will be offered by a recognized broker, who is jointly appointed by the parties.
However, the parties will also come in mutual consultation to see how large the possible financing deficit is and whether a repayment scheme can be made for the deficit.
After sale to a third party, half of the surplus value will be assigned to the woman,
Also with the promised deduction of Euro 3,000 (session: three thousand euros) in favor of the man.
(...) ”
2.4.
After the divorce, the man in the house at [address], [postcode] in Rotterdam Hoogvliet (hereinafter: the home) continued to live.The woman now lives elsewhere.The man did not take over the share of the woman in the home.
3.
The dispute
3.1.
The woman claims that the judge in the preliminary relief proceedings can be declared enforceable in stock judgment:The man condemns within five days of the judgment to cooperate with the implementation of a valuation report by a broker to be designated by the parties in mutual consultation (or in the absence of timely agreement at that point to Synchro Makelaardij B.V.)and to the provision of a sales assignment under the usual conditions to this broker with regard to the sale of the home and stipulates that if the man refuses his cooperation within the aforementioned period, the woman on behalf of the man all for the purpose of sale (legal) can perform actions,
The man condemns at the first request of the broker, an employee of that office to view the property, to take photos and make a description for on or in various websites or leaflets,
The man condemns to clean and bring the home, garden, substrate and other accessories in a decent condition when the broker comes to take photos and a description,
The man condemns to allow any potential buyers and the broker in the home for any viewings,
the man condemns the property in a decent state for potential buyers,
The man condemns his cooperation in the execution of a deed of delivery of the home, whereby the home is transferred to a third party, in front of a notary to be designated by the woman or the buyer,
All this on pain of forfeiting a penalty of € 500.00 for each time that the man does not comply with these conditions after service of the judgment, this up to a maximum of € 45,000.00,
The woman grants replacement permission to, if the man does not cooperate with the aforementioned, on behalf of the man, to perform all (legal) acts necessary for the sale and delivery and furthermore stipulates that the verdict takes the placeis stated of the man's declaration of the man in the deed of sale and the notarial deeds if the man fails to implement it and stipulates that the deeds thus drawn up can be legally registered in the specified registers,
The man condemns to pay the woman immediately after delivery of the home has taken place the part of the surplus value of the home, calculated as follows: the sales sum of the house minus the mortgage fault at the time of delivery on the home, calculated as the man his obligations from that mortgage loan agreement always correctly fulfilled, shared by 2 minus an amount of € 3,000.00,
With conviction of the man in the costs of the procedure, plus the statutory interest on this if the owed is not paid to the woman within ten days of the verdict.
3.2.
The man defends and concludes to reject the claim, with compensation for the costs of the proceedings.
3.3.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, insofar as relevant.
4.
The assessment
With regard to the urgent interest
4.1.
The man disputes that the woman has an urgent interest in her claims.The preliminary relief judge does not follow the man there.The woman has explained that after the divorce, she went to live temporarily, pending her dismissal from the joint and several liability for the mortgage debt and the payment of half of the surplus value, in a rental home that is too expensive for her.Furthermore, she has stated without being contradicted that she can no longer pay the rent of her current home and take into account an owner -occupied home if the man fulfills the agreements from the divorce agreement.This means that the outcome of a soil procedure cannot be awaited by the woman.
With regard to the progress
4.2.
It follows from the divorce agreement that the parties have agreed that the man must inform the woman within one month after the date of the divorce decision and to prove whether he will get the financing for the acquisition of the home and that if that fails, the property must be sold to a third party.The preliminary relief judge considers that, now that the period of one month after the divorce decision of 20 April 2020 has expired, the home must in principle be sold to a third party, unless the interests of the man oppose this and/or there are new factsAnd circumstances.
4.3.During the oral treatment, the man indicated that he fell ill after the divorce and therefore could not arrange the financing at the time.From the documents and his explanation submitted by the man, however, it follows that he fell ill at the end of May/beginning of June 2020.The preliminary relief judge considers that, in view of the date of the divorce decision, the period of one month to get the financing around at that time had already expired.This means that the man's disease is no reason to deviate from the agreement in the divorce agreement.
The man also stated that he is still able to take over the house.According to the man, he could not get the financing before, because he was awaiting a better report by the health and safety doctor.The man now states that he needs an additional period of eight weeks to be able to arrange the takeover of the home.In response, the woman announced that she is being held on the line by the man and that the man's lawyer has already announced three times that the financing of the home was complete.This is confirmed in an e-mail of 25 February 2021 of the man's lawyer to Woman's lawyer, in which the man's lawyer writes: “But I have now informed you 3 times that the financing is complete and that the notarywill prepare the deeds.That simply needs to be waited for. "It follows that the woman is indeed being held on the line.This means that the property must be sold to a third party.
4.4.
In view of the above, the preliminary relief judge considers a conviction to - in short - cooperation in the transfer of the house to a third party in place.This means that the claims are granted with due observance of the following.
4.5.
The claim under 1 is granted, whereby the period to provide cooperation is set at a week.The parties must designate a broker within this period in mutual consultation.If they fail to do so, the order for valuation and sale to Synchro Makelaardij B.V.to be provided.The second part of the claim (from "determines that") is rejected, now that a penalty is attached to the conviction (see the consideration below in 4.6.).
4.6.
The claims under 2 to 5 are allocated in the manner to be stated below in the decision.In addition, the preliminary relief judge notes that with “De Makelaar” the real estate agent's office or real estate agent Synchro Makelaardij B.V.and the employees of the office in question are meant.Because it is unclear what in the claim under 3 and 5 is meant to be tidy and in a proper state of the home, garden, substrate and other accessories, the decision states that this is left to the assessment of the broker.In view of the (process) attitude of the man, the claims under 1 to 5 are granted under the imposition of the penalty (as claimed by the woman under 7).
4.7.
The preliminary relief judge understands from the claim under 6 that the woman is committed to the man's cooperation in the sale and delivery of the home to a third party.The claim is therefore allocated in the manner to be stated below in the decision.The advanced under 8 is also allocated, in the sense that if the man does not provide the sale and delivery of the house at the first request of the woman, the woman is given replacement permission for the sale and delivery of the property byOn the basis of Article 3: 300 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code, it will be that this judgment will replace the man's directing of the man in the sales agreement and in the deed of delivery.In view of this there is no reason to attach a penalty to that conviction.The preliminary relief judge also sees no reason to determine that the deed can be legally registered in the designated registers.
4.8.
The claim under 9 is rejected.The parties have recorded an agreement in Article 5 of the divorce agreement about the payment of the part of the surplus value of the property.There is no reason to repeat this agreement applicable between the parties in the decision.
4.9.
Now that parties are former spouses, the costs of the proceedings between them are compensated, in the sense that each of the parties bears their own costs.
5.
The decision
The preliminary relief judge
5.1.condemns the man to cooperate within one week of the judgment of the judgment to have a valuation report carried out by a real estate agent or, in the absence of timely agreement, to Synchro Makelaardij B.V.and to the provision of a sales order under the usual conditions to this broker with regard to the sale of the property to [address], [postcode] in Rotterdam Hoogvliet,
5.2.
orders the man to give the broker, at the first written request from the broker, to view the property, to take photos and make a description for on or in websites or leaflets,
5.3.
condemns the man to bring the home, garden, substrate and other accessories tidy and in a decent state, at the discretion of the broker, the moment the broker comes to take photos and a description,
5.4.
condemns the man to allow any potential buyers and the broker in the home for any viewings,
5.5.
condemns the man to draw up the property in a decent state for potential buyers, at the discretion of the broker,
5.6.
condemns the man to pay a penalty of € 500.00 to the woman for each time the man was not on the above in 5.1.up to and including 5.5.pronounced convictions, up to a maximum of € 45,000.00 has been reached,
5.7.
orders the man to cooperate with the sale to a third party at the first written request of the woman and the delivery of the home to that third party in front of a notary to be designated by the woman or the buyer, or the buyer to be designated by the woman,
5.8.
stipulates that if the man does not comply with the conviction under 5.7., this judgment will replace the manner required for the sales agreement and deed of delivery of the man,
5.9.
declares this judgment so far enforceable in stock,
5.10.
compensates for the costs of this procedure between the parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs,
5.11.
rejects it more or otherwise advanced.
This judgment was given by J.C.A.T.Frima and pronounced in public on 17 June 2021.
[2971/1659]