ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 15697
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 15697
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
23-12-2022
Date of publication
30-03-2023
Case
NL222.4779
Jurisdiction
Administrative procedural law
Special characteristics
Preliminary injunction
Contents indication
VOVO;Registry fee not paid;request inadmissible;
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
STATE STATION Utrecht Administrative Law Case number: NL22.4779
judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the case between
[applicant], applicant V-number: [V-number]
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The State Secretary of Justice and Security, Defendant.
Process
This decision is about the request for a provisional provision against the defendant's decision of 24 February 2022.
Consideration
1. The preliminary relief judge does not invite the parties for a session, because this is not necessary in this case.The applicant did not pay the court fee, so that the preliminary relief judge cannot handle the case substantively.The preliminary relief judge explains this below.
2. Someone who makes a request for a provisional provision must pay court fees.This is stated in Article 8:82, first paragraph, of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb).In this case, the court fees are € 184.
3. If the court fee is not paid (on time), the main rule is that the preliminary relief judge may not deal with the request substantively.That can be different if there is a valid reason for that.
4. On 24 March 2022, the preliminary relief judge sent a registered letter, stating that the applicant must pay the court fee to the preliminary relief judge within four weeks.
5. The applicant has not paid the court fee.The applicant has not given a valid reason for this.The request will not be dealt with substantively and the preliminary relief judge will not make a substantive decision on the request.The request is apparently inadmissible (Article 8:54 of the Awb).There is no reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings.
Decision
The preliminary relief judge declares the request inadmissible.
This statement was made by R.J.A.Schaaf, judge in the presence of
N. Dayerizadeh, clerk.
The decision was pronounced in public and announced on:
December 23, 2022
Document code: [Document code]
Remedial agent
No legal remedy is open against this decision.