ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2023: 3684
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2023: 3684
Instance
Court of Noord-Holland
Date of judgment
20-04-2023
Date of publication
07-09-2023
Case
C/15/224744/FA RK 22-451
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Partner contribution.The man has failed to consult calculations of needs and capacity.He has not met the assignment given to the parties to the parties to submit recent calculations by the court in its (convocation) letter.The man also did not comply with the assignment given by the court to him to submit calculations.The court will attach the consequences that it considers guessed, which in particular means that the court will largely follow the woman in what she has stated about the need and capacity.The court is of the opinion that the fall in his income announced by the man as at 1 June 2023 is culpable to him.The statement from his employer of 25 January 2023 submitted by the man only shows that he and his employer apparently have come to a departure scheme.This statement does not in any way show that the man was fired due to substandard performance or because of psychological complaints.Moreover, it is unclear which doctor has drawn up the medical statement, what his expertise is and whether he has recently seen the man.The court will therefore not link the evidence that the man sees in front of him.The court also considers that in the case of illness the man should have reported sick to his employer, so that he could have claimed continuing his wages during illness.In view of this, the court passes the man's defense and the court assumes the man's capacity of the man from a gross annual wage of € 218,946 as mentioned in the 2022 annual statement.
Bridal gift.The man stated that the woman would not be entitled to the bridal gift because she has not met the conditions in the marriage certificate.In the opinion of the court, however, this is not apparent from the marriage certificate and what the parties have stated on this.The court thus explains the content of the marriage certificate that the conditions ("Terms and Conditions") that are mentioned do not relate to the issue of the bridal gift but on the (im) possibilities of the parties to request divorce.This defense of the man will therefore pass the court.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Noord-Holland
Family and youth
Location Haarlem
Case number/Great number: C/15/224744/FA RK 22-451 and C/15/331272/FA RK 22-3970
Decision of 20 April 2023 on divorce, partner contribution and distribution
in the case of:
[the man] ,
living in [place],
hereinafter referred to as: the man,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri, established in Amsterdam,
in return for
[the woman] ,
living in [place],
hereinafter referred to as: the woman,
Lawyer mr. D.H.Bialkowski, located in Amsterdam.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
- the letter from the man, received on January 26, 2022;
- the defense also independent request, with appendices, from the woman, received on June 16, 2022;
- the defense on the independent request, also additional request, with appendices, from the man, received on 12 August 2022;
- the amended and additional requests, with appendices, of the woman, from January 16, 2023;
- the letter from the woman's lawyer, with additional request, of January 17, 2023;
- the F form, with appendices, of the man of the man of January 17, 2023;
- the F form, with appendices, of the woman of the woman of January 24, 2023;
- the F form, with appendices, of the man of the man of January 24, 2023;
- The independent requests also defense on request, of the man, of January 24, 2023.
1.2.
The oral hearing took place on January 26, 2023 in the presence of parties, assisted by their lawyers and interpreters.The woman's lawyer submitted an alimony calculation at the hearing.The man's lawyer submitted a statement from the HR director of his employer [employer] of 25 January 2023 at the hearing.
1.3.
At the hearing, the court gave the parties the opportunity to submit further documents about the partner contribution and the bridal gift.The court received the following documents after the hearing:
- the F-Form of the Woman's lawyer of 10 February 2023;
- the e-mail message from the man's lawyer of 13 February 2023;
- the F form, with appendices, of the Woman's lawyer on 23 February 2023;
- The F form, with an appendix to the man's lawyer on 27 February 2023.
2
The established facts
2.1.Parties are married on [wedding date] in [place], Iran.At the time of the marriage, the man and the woman had the Iranian nationality.Since 2019, the parties have both also obtained Dutch nationality.
2.2.
By order of 14 July 2022, it was determined in the context of the provisional provision procedure that the man must pay a partner contribution of € 4,500 gross per month to the woman.
At the hearing of 30 June 2022, the parties made the following agreements in the context of the provisional provisions:
3.2.
The parties agreed at the hearing.
The woman will take over the house in [place], where she already lives.The house in [place] will be sold.To this end, the parties will give [brokerage] in [place] the sales order.If the sale to third parties will not be seized within two months, the man who currently occupies a rental home in [place] will temporarily involve the house in [place] in order to limit his housing costs.The parties will make a maximum of effort to achieve speedy sales and delivery to third parties.
3
The assessment
Divorce
3.1.
The parties request that they pronounce the divorce between them.They state that the marriage is sustainably disrupted.
3.2.
Now that at the time of the submission of the petition, both parties had in any case the Dutch nationality, the Dutch court is entitled to judge the request for divorce.Pursuant to Article 10:56 of the Dutch Civil Code, Dutch law applies to the request for divorce.
3.3.
The divorce request will, if well -founded on the law.
Partner contribution
3.4.
After changing her request at the hearing of 26 January 2023, the woman requests a contribution to be paid by the man to the costs of her livelihood (hereinafter also: partner contribution) of € 4,700 gross per month.To substantiate this amount, the woman submitted calculations of needs and capacity at the hearing.
3.5.
The man defends.However, he has failed to consult calculations of needs and capacity.He has not met the order of 8 November 2022 given to the parties given to the parties to submit recent calculations.The man also did not comply with the assignment given by the court to him to submit calculations.The court will attach the consequences that it considers guessed, which in particular means that the court will largely follow the woman in what she has stated about the need and capacity.
authority and applicable real
3.6.
On the basis of Article 3 sub a of the Alimony Regulation (No. 4/2009 Council of 18 December 2008), the Dutch court is authorized to take cognizance of the maintenance request.Pursuant to Article 3 of the protocol of 23 November 2007, the court will apply Dutch law to the request for establishing a partner contribution, now that the maintenance -entitled to residence in the Netherlands has.
starting date
3.7.
The court considers that it follows from the law that the partner contribution cannot start on a date that is located for the day of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of the civil status.The court determines the commencement date of a possible partner contribution on the latter date.
Treman standards
3.8.
In the calculation of the contribution to be determined, the court takes the so -called Treman standards as a starting point and in its assessment is always at whole euros.The attached calculation, made with the help of the Ina alimony calculation program, shows which principles were used by the court.With regard to these principles, the court specifically considers the following.
female needs
3.9.
The woman stated that her need must be set at an amount of
€ 5,462.That amount was calculated on the basis of the man's income in 2021, because the parties last lived together in that year.The man's income in 2021 was € 195,476 and the woman had no income that year.The man did not dispute this.The woman has submitted a list of needs from which a net need of € 5,614 follows.The man has disputed this list and argues, among other things, that the woman did not substantiate the costs in more detail.
3.10.
The man has not disputed the application of the court standard, so that the needs of the woman can be calculated on the basis of this rule of thumb.At the court standard, the marriage -related need is set at 60% of the net disposable family income of parties for the breaking.Based on an income of the man of € 195,476 and no income from the woman, the court calculates the woman indexed to € 5,648 per month to 1 January 2023.
3.11.Her own income must be deducted from the needs of women.The woman has been employed by [company] since 1 June 2022.She receives a salary of € 3,750 gross per month.In addition, she is a board member and shareholder of the Iranian family business [family business].She has 14 of the 200 shares of this company.In a letter of 16 January 2023, the Financial & Administration Manager of the company stated that the woman has never received a salary and/or a reward for being a board member.It is also stated that the company has never paid annual profits to the shareholders.In the years that profit has been achieved, this has been reinvested in the company, according to the company's Financial & Administration Manager.The woman's IB 2021 declaration also shows no (box 2) income.The court is of the opinion that the woman has sufficiently substantiated that she does not receive income from her administrative work for the Iranian company nor from its shareholding.
The court calculates the net additional need of the woman at € 2,608 per month.
capacity of the man
3.12.
The court must then assess whether the man has sufficient capacity to contribute to the additional needs of the woman.
3.13.
The man states that his capacity is not sufficient to pay the partner contribution requested by the woman.He stated at the hearing that he will no longer be employed by his current employer on 1 June 2023.He was fired by his employer because he could no longer fulfill his position now that his performance was substandard.He is depressed and has psychological complaints, according to the man.To substantiate his statements, the man submitted a statement from the HR director of his employer and an (English -language) statement from his medical practitioner.The man wants to start his own business.There is no written prognosis yet, but it has been stated on behalf of the man that he could create a gross turnover of € 100,000 after three years.The increase in his salary in 2022 can be explained by the fact that he had to perform a temporary management task;This function has now been taken over by a colleague of his.
3.14.
The woman has put a defense.She disputes that a competent doctor has drawn up the statement.The doctor who wrote the statement is located in a small village in the north of Iran, where the man could not have been in the political situation lately.Moreover, the doctor is not a company doctor who can assess whether the man is too sick to work.According to the woman, the letter from the man's employer is "made" with a view to the divorce and alimony obligation.The man's salary increased by € 20,000 to € 25,000 in 2022, which, according to the woman, is not an indication that the man would have carried out his work insufficiently.The woman argues that the man works and if he has no income that he then has a earning capacity equal to his last -earned wage.
3.15.
Finally, the woman states that the man also enjoys foreign income from Iran and Canada, which income should be included in the calculation of the man's capacity.For this, she refers to the production 15 she submitted and sets this income at € 30,000 on an annual basis.
The man argues that he did not enjoy Canadian income.With regard to Iranian income, he was on the payroll's Iranian family business to make him qualify for retirement.This has already stopped, according to the man.
3.16.
The court is of the opinion that the fall in his income announced by the man as at 1 June 2023 is culpable to him.The statement from his employer of 25 January 2023 submitted by the man only shows that he and his employer apparently have come to a departure scheme.From this statementIt is by no means that the man was fired due to undersized performance or because of psychological complaints.Moreover, it is unclear which doctor has drawn up the medical statement, what his expertise is and whether he has recently seen the man.The court will therefore not link the evidence that the man sees in front of him.The court also considers that in the case of illness the man should have reported sick to his employer, so that he could have claimed continuing his wages during illness.In view of this, the court passes the man's defense and, in the calculation of the man's capacity of the man, the court is based on a gross annual wage of € 218,946 as mentioned in the annual statement 2022. The court will be the income from abroad set by the womanDo not include in the calculation, now that the man has substantiated and undisputed that he is (still) enjoying this income and because the court has not been able to establish that the man received this income on a structural basis during the marriage.
3.17.
The court calculates the capacity of the man at € 3,486 net per month.
conclusion
3.18.
On the basis of the foregoing, the court is of the opinion that the man could meet a partner contribution of € 2,608 net, or € 5,069 gross, on the basis of the standards of needs and capacity.However, now that the woman requests a partner contribution of € 4,700 gross per month, the court will determine this amount as a level of the partner contribution.
3.19.
The man asks the woman to condemn the repayment of the set partner contribution from the date of employment of the woman at her employer.The court will not include this request in this soil procedure.By order of 14 July 2022, provisional provisions were established by the court and the appropriate way to request changes to this, which the man did not do.The court will therefore reject this request from the man.
Marriage of marriage
competence and applicable law
3.20.
Now that the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for divorce, it also has jurisdiction with regard to the requested with regard to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.The Marriage Convention 1978 (HHV 1978) applies to the matrimonial property regime.It has not been shown that the parties have issued a valid choice of law as referred to in Article 3 HHV 1978.At the time of the wedding ceremony, the parties only had the Iranian nationality in common.Iran is a so -called nationality land.That is why Iranian law applied to the matrimonial property regime of the parties from the date of the wedding ceremony on the basis of Article 4, paragraph 2 of the HHV 1978.Shortly after the wedding ceremony, namely on 3 October 2008, the parties established their first habitual residence in the territory of the same state, namely the Netherlands.On 4 October 2018, parties had their habitual residence in the Netherlands for more than ten years.That is why Dutch law has become applicable to the matrimonial property regime on the basis of Article 7, paragraph 2, HHV 1978 from 4 October 2018.
3.21.
In view of the above, Iran's law applies to the matrimonial property regime for the period 5 August 2008 to 4 October 2018 and Dutch law applies over the following period.It is further considered that the so -called "wagon system" of HHV 1978 means that the change in the matrimonial property regime only has a result for the future.
Since January 1, 2018, the limited legal community of property has been in existence in the Netherlands.This means that from the moment that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties, namely 4 October 2018, the limited legal community exists.In short, this means that only what the spouses have built up since then and the goods that belonged to them together before that date belong to the limited marriage community.
Iranian matrimonial property law only has the exclusion of every community of property.
Distribution of limited community
3.22.
Both parties request the distribution of the limited community of property between them to determine the manner he proposed by him or its proposed.
3.23.
Between the parties is
not 
In dispute that on the reference date of 26 January 2022, date of the request for divorce request, the following components belong to the legally limited community:
a. house in [place] ([postcode]);
b.house in [place] ([postcode]);
c.Woman car (BMW) with license plate [license plate];
d.Car of the man (Mercedes) with license plate [license plate];
e.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the woman;
f.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the woman;g.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the woman;
h.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the woman;
i.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the woman;
j. balance of the account (Germany) Flatexdegiro [account number];
k.balance of the account [account number];
l.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the man;
m. balance of the account [account number] in the name of the man;
n.balance of the account [account number] in the name of the man;
o. balance of the account [account number] in the name of the man;
p.balance of the account (Germany) Flatexdegiro [account number] in the name of the man;
Q.balance of the account (Canada) Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce [account number] in the name of the man;
r.balance of the Degiro investment account [investment account] in the name of the man;
s.mortgage debt ING repayment -free [number];
t.ING linear mortgage [number] (part 1.0);
you.ING linear mortgage [number] (part 1.1);
v. Rabohypotheek [number].
3.24.
Between the parties
well
Discussion about whether the following components fall into the limited community:
w.house in [place], Iran;
X.Content/jewelry;
y.share package at DeGiro in the name of the woman;
z. Shares of the woman in Iranian enterprise;
Aa.ING Personal Loan [Number] in the name of the man;
bb.ING Personal Loan [Number] in the name of the man;
cc.ING Personal Loan [Number] in the name of the man;
dd.ING Personal Loan [Number] in the name of the man.
ad a., s., t.and you.house in [place] ([postcode]) and the corresponding mortgage loans
3.25.
The parties have reached agreement on the property in [place] in the sense that it will be sold to a third party and that the sales proceeds, after deduction of the mortgage debt and costs, will be shared by the parties.
Ad b.and v. House in [place] ([postcode]) and the corresponding mortgage loan
3.26.The woman wishes to take over the house in [place] for an amount of
€ 450,000.She bases this value on the valuation of brokerage [brokerage] of January 18, 2023 (production 17).The man did not dispute this value.
The woman asks the court to grant her a period of six months to get the financing, because in the financing she must also involve the surplus value of the home in [place] and the receipt of the bridal gift.
The man wants the property to be sold in [place] as quickly as possible, whereby parties, after repayment of the mortgage, can share the sales proceeds.
The man did not substantiate his interest in a speedy sale of the house in [place].Now that he himself apparently does not want to take over this home, the court is of the opinion that the woman should be the first to be given the opportunity to take over the home.The court will therefore give the woman the opportunity to get a suitable financing in the registers within three months of the date of the divorce in the registers to take over the property at the value of € 450,000, as determined by the broker and not disputed bythe man.The financing must enable the woman to pay half of the surplus value per date of transfer to the man and to dismiss the man from the joint and several liability.If this is not possible within the stipulated period, the property will be put for sale by the parties, whereby the parties will cooperate in providing an assignment to a broker to be appointed in mutual consultation.The parties are obliged to follow up the advice of the broker, both with regard to "preparing the sale" of the home and the asking price.After the sale of the property, after repayment of the mortgage loan, the brokerage costs and other costs related to the home, the surplus value between the parties at Helfte is shared.
ad c and d.cars
3.27.
The parties have reached agreement on the distribution of the cars.The woman's car is allocated to the woman, without settlement of the value of this.The man's car is allocated to the man, without settlement of the value of this.
ad e to r.bank accounts
3.28.
The parties have not carefully expressed themselves about which bank accounts, according to them, whether or not in the limited legal community falls so that the court will assume that all bank accounts mentioned by the parties in the procedural documents will fall into the limited legal community.The parties agree that the balances on the reference date of 26 January 2022, the date of submitting the divorce petition, must be included in the distribution.The court ordered the method of distribution of the bank accounts as follows: Each party continues the bank accounts that are on his or her name.The balances per reference date always come to the parties at Helfte, so that the continuing party must reimburse half of the bank balance to the other person on the reference date.If there is a negative balance per reference date, both parties must equally clear this balance to € 0. The parties must provide each other back and forth in the balance of the bank accounts per reference date.
3.29.
The additional request of the woman of 23 February 2023 about the bank account that is not specified by the man with number [number] in the name of the man will be rejected.This bank account was indeed given by the man at an earlier stage in this procedure and this account serves by the parties on the above under point 3.3.8.indicated to be involved in the distribution
Ad w.house in [place]
3.30.
The woman states that her private assets belongs to a home / apartment in [place], Iran.According to the woman, this property is financed from her preliminary marriage private assets.The woman has submitted a valuation of January 17, 2023, which shows that the house is worth between € 95,525 and € 104,017.The woman has not formulated any requests in this house.
In his statement of defense, the man stated that the woman is currently entitled to the home and that the woman obtained the home in 2018 and that the home falls into the legally limited community.According to the man, the woman did not fund the house with pre -marriage private assets.The parties have partly paid the purchase with a loan and the rest with their joint savings.The property is worth € 110,000 according to the man.
3.31.
The court is of the opinion that the parties have set too little to be able to assume that the property belongs to the preliminary marriage private assets of the woman.The woman has not offered any evidence on this point.Now that the parties have a dispute about the question of whom the property belongs and neither of them have proven the right to this good, the court will determine on the basis of Article 1:94 (8) of the Dutch Civil Code that the home in [place] in the legal limited community willfall.The court will determine the value of the home on the average of the values mentioned by the parties, being
€ 104,885 (The woman: € 99,771 (((€ 95,525 + € 104,107) / 2) and the man: € 110,000). The property will be allocated to the woman, where she serves half of the value mentioned above to the manto reimburse, being an amount of € 52,442.
Ad x.Content/jewelry
3.32.The man states that he has left jewelry and the household effects, who together represent a value of € 75,000, with the woman.According to the man, the woman must reimburse him half of € 75,000.
The woman disputes that there are jewels.According to the woman, the household effects are already divided and the man has already taken what he wanted.
In the opinion of the court, the man, against the challenge by the woman, has not sufficiently substantiated that there are jewels that fall into the legal limited community, so that the court assumes that there are no jewelry.Parties argue about the size, value and distribution of the household effects.The court will determine that the goods that the woman currently has, without further settlement and that the goods that the man currently has under him without further settlement.The parties can of course come to other agreements in mutual consultation.
ad y.share package at DeGiro in the name of the woman
3.33.
The woman states that her private assets belongs to a share package at DeGiro.According to the woman, the investment of this share package was done from her private assets.
The man states that the share package falls into the limited community.According to the man, the woman bought the shares in 2019 and must share in the value of these shares.
The court is of the opinion that the parties have put too little back and forth to be able to assume that the share package belongs to the preliminary marriage private assets of the woman.The woman has not offered any evidence on this point.Now that the parties have a dispute about the question of whom the property belongs and neither of them have proven the right to this good, the court will determine on the basis of Article 1:94 (8) of the Dutch Civil Code that the share package falls in the statutory limited community.The value of the share package is not known to the court.The court will determine that the parties must sell the shares, that each of them will have half of the proceeds, and that each of them must bear the sales costs.It is free to make a different agreement in mutual consultation about the distribution of the share package.Ad z. Shares of the woman in the Iranian enterprise
3.34.The man states that the shares that the woman has in the Iranian enterprise fall into the common estate so that the woman must reimburse the value of this.The woman has not been a defense.
3.35.
The court will determine that the shares are allocated to the woman with compensation to the man of half the value.The parties have not commented on the value of the shares.The court will therefore determine that the parties in Iran must appoint a financial expert who can determine the value of the shares.If the parties do not agree on the expert to be designated, then the parties individually appoint an expert, after which both experts appoint a third expert.The parties are free to agree in mutual consultation what amount the woman must pay to the man in respect of the distribution of the shares.
ad aa.up to and including dd.Loans in the name of the man
3.36.
The woman states that the above under AA.up to and including dd.Said debts with ING private debts belong to the man.
The man disputes this.
3.37.
The court judges as follows.
The 2021 annual overview of ING showed that the loans mentioned under BB.and cc.were lifted in 2021.Distribution of this is therefore no longer an issue.
The loan mentioned under Aa.According to the man, sees a bridging loan that falls into the legally limited community and that will be repaid from the surplus value of the sale of the houses.The woman has not disputed this, at least insufficiently motivated.The court therefore ruled that this loan falls into the limited community of the parties and must be supported equally between the parties.
The loan mentioned under dd.According to the man, is a personal loan for the woman, who also falls into the legally limited community.The woman has not disputed this, at least insufficiently motivated.The court therefore ruled that this loan also falls into the limited community of the parties and must be borne between the parties.
Wedding
3.38.
The woman requests, after changing her requests on 23 February 2023, with regard to the bridal gift:
- to condemn the man to give her 114 gold [coins] coins that meet the following description: manufactured by: Persian Mint, Weight (in Gram) 8.13, Pure Gold Content (Grams): 7.317, Finessness: 900, Dimensions: 22mm, and to determine that if the man has not given the 114 gold coins to the woman within 10 days after date, the man must pay the woman an amount of 114 x € 602.24 = € 68,655.36 within20 days after the date of decision;
- to condemn the man to give her the bronze mirror as shown on Appendix 4 and to determine that if the man has not given the mirror to the woman within 10 days of the date of the man, the man has to pay the woman an amount of €1,648 within 20 days after the date of decision;
- to condemn the man to give her two silver candlesticks as depicted on Appendix 5 and to determine that if the man did not give the mirror to the woman within 10 days of the date of decision, the man has to pay her an amount of € 4,600within 20 days after the date of decision;
- to order the man to pay her an amount of € 2,000 with regard to the Hajj within 20 days of the date of decision.
The court understands that the woman also requests to condemn the man to give her a Quran as depicted on Appendix 6 within ten days after the date of this decision.
3.39.
The woman states the following for this.The parties have agreed in the marriage certificate that the woman, as a bridal gift, 114 gold coins, a Hajj to Mecca, a mirror with a silver frame, two golden candlesticks and a Koran from the man.This bridal gift is claimable at all times.Multiple conditions have been met, on the basis of which the woman has the right to request the divorce.In accordance with the agreement, the man must provide the woman mentioned to the woman, or the amount of money that is equal to the value of these goods.
3.40.The man defends and leads the following.The woman is not entitled to the bridal gift, because she has not met the conditions in the marriage certificate and prescribing Iranian law.It is the woman who wishes to divorce and ended the relationship.As a result, she must renounce any financial law at all of her.In addition, the woman cannot claim a sum of money, now that this has not been agreed.The gold coins that the woman requests after change are insufficiently determined in her request and contain no details about the size and weight of the coins.The man also disputes the value of the gold coins requested by the woman now that this is insufficiently substantiated.Furthermore, with regard to the number of gold coins, the parties have chosen a symbolic number to emphasize their faith and dedication to each other.However, the man is unable to meet 114 gold coins to the woman.The man has already (partly) met this obligation, because he has always paid the costs for women during the marriage.The advanced silver candlesticks, mirror, Koran and Hajj are not assignable because insufficiently determined.Furthermore, the woman's request cannot be regarded as a side facility as referred to in Article 827 DCCP.The woman's request must therefore be rejected.
3.41.
The court judges as follows.
3.42.
In the marriage agreement, the parties included a clause regarding the bridal gift.This clause means that on the occasion of the marriage the man still has to give the woman, as soon as she requests it, a copy of the 'Holy Koran', a mirror, a 'pair or' candlesticks, costs of a pilgrimage ('Omra Hajj') to Mecca and 114 '[coins] gold coins'.
3.43.
The court is of the opinion that the requested provision with regard to the bridal gift can be regarded as an ancillary provision within the meaning of Article 827 (1)), since this provision is sufficiently associated with the request for divorce and handling the request does not lead to unnecessarydelay in the proceedings.
3.44.
The bridal gift, as follows from settled case law,, by its nature, has its own unique form within the property law claims of spouses and can be claimed by the woman from the start of the marriage, which claim right is generally recognized.Iranian law applies, being the right to which the entitlement to the bridal gift was established.Pursuant to Article 1082 of the Iranian law of 1935, the woman is entitled and owner of the bridal gift from the day of marriage.The claim for payment of the bridal gift is at all times due and payable, both during and after the marriage.
3.45.
The man stated that the woman would not be entitled to the bridal gift because she has not met the conditions in the marriage certificate.In the opinion of the court, however, this is not apparent from the marriage certificate and what the parties have stated on this.The court thus explains the content of the marriage certificate that the conditions ("Terms and Conditions") that are mentioned do not relate to the issue of the bridal gift but on the (im) possibilities of the parties to request divorce.This defense of the man will therefore pass the court.
3.46.
The man furthermore states that the bridal gift only comes to the woman if she has met Iranian law.According to Iranian law, the woman is not entitled to divorce and to leave the relationships of the parties if one of the circumstances as stated in the marriage certificate under points 1 to 12.Coming divorce and ending the relationship, according to the man, this means that the bridal gift cannot be called upon, which is discussed here.The court considers the conditions as included in the marriage certificate, whereby the woman - unlike the man - may only request divorce on the basis of those reasons, contrary to Dutch public order.Those conditions will therefore be left out of application.This defense of the man therefore also fails.
3.47.
Moreover, the text of the marriage certificate does not in any way show that parties have only meant the bridal gift symbolically, as argued by the man.The single (non -substantiated) statement of the man that he has never been able to pay the agreed 114 gold coins, partly in the light of the Iranian law on the basis of which the woman (an enforceable) is entitled to the bridal gift fromThe marriage closure, in any case insufficient for the conclusion that the bridal gift is only symbolic and not due.The court will pass this defense of the man.
3.48.The man also stated that the woman's claim is too indefinite and therefore not assignable.According to the man, the marriage certificate does not show that it concerns so -called "full" gold coins.The marriage certificate also contains no details about the gold coins and the dimensions thereof.Moreover, the woman has insufficiently substantiated the value of the coins according to the man.
3.49.
The court is of the opinion that the marriage certificate shows that the woman is entitled to "full" gold coins, now that this is described in the deed as "114 [coins] gold coins".In the opinion of the court, the woman has also sufficiently substantiated the exactly coins this is, by appointing the weight, size and other details.The woman's claim is therefore sufficiently determined.
3.50.
The parties also argue about the value of the gold coins.The court points out that what has been determined in the marriage certificate about the bridal gift can be regarded as an agreement between the parties.The court cannot avoid the impression that the man is very important to come out of this agreement under his obligations.The man's lawyer, at the hearing of January 26, 2023, mainly created a lot of confusion about the value of the Golden Coins and triggered the value, while it had also been objectively to inform the court on this point.After all, it concerns contractual obligations of (also) the man.The court will follow the woman in the value of the gold coins she sets.The woman stated that the value per coin is € 602.24.She substantiated this with a statement from an employee of Eraas Exchange and references to websites, which the court regards as objective sources to arrive at the value of the coins.The fact that the man apparently found other websites that indicate a (slightly) lower value does not change that.The court will therefore assign the woman's request with regard to the gold coins.
3.51.
With regard to the other goods mentioned in the marriage certificate, the court considers as follows.
3.52.
The candlesticks, mirror and the Quran are not specified in the marriage certificate.On the Quran, an expert in production 16, engaged by the woman herself, states that this does not represent any material value.The woman first talks about golden candlesticks and later about silver candlesticks.The court therefore has insufficient information to appreciate these goods in a sum of money.This means that the court will condemn the man for the provision of the goods, as referred to in the marriage certificate, to the woman within four weeks of the date of this decision.
With regard to the Hajj, the court considers that the man to the woman an amount of
€ 2,000 as a reimbursement must pay, now that she cannot make this pilgrimage because the woman is not a Muslim woman, according to the man.
Other
3.53.
The woman requests:
1. order the man to pay her to pay an amount of € 2,850.50 in connection with the tax refund for 2021;
2. order the man to be paid to her to pay an amount of € 1,865 in connection with the costs of selling the house in Zaandam;
3. to order the man to pay her € 342.62 in connection with the fees for the accounts paid by the woman;
4. to order the man to pay her € 280 in connection with the reimbursement that the man has received from the health insurance policy.
3.54.
The man makes a defense against this.
3.55.
The court will allocate the request mentioned under 2. (costs of the sale of the house) because this request is substantiated with an invoice and see these costs on the marital period.The other requests mentioned under 3. and 4. will be rejected now that the woman has not substantiated this, at least insufficiently.With regard to the request mentioned under 1., the court considers as follows.The tax returns and attacks that see on the marital period until the reference date will go to both parties or must be worn by both of them.The woman has not submitted any documents showing that the man has received a tax refund.The court cannot therefore decide on specific amounts and will therefore reject the woman's request.However, the parties are obliged to inform each other on the basis of documents from the tax authorities about any refunds and/or attacks and to share them or to carry them together.
4
The decision
The court:
4.1.
The divorce expresses between parties, married in [place], Iran on [wedding date];
4.2.
stipulates that the man must pay € 4,700 gross per month to the woman as a livelihood benefit, from the day of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status, to be paid in advance;
4.3.ordered the method of distribution of the limited community that existed between the parties as it has been considered above under legal considerations 3.23.up to and including 3.37.;
4.4.
condemns the man to give to the woman 114 Golden [coins] coins that meet the following description:
-
Made by: Persian Mint;
-
Weight: 8.13 grams;
-
pure gold quantity: 7.317 grams;
-
fineness: 900;
-
Size: 22 millimeters,
And stipulates that if the man has not given the 114 gold coins to the woman within ten days after the date of this decision, the man must pay an amount of € 68,655.36 to the woman within twenty days of the date of this decision;
4.5.
condemns the man to give a Quran, two candlesticks and a mirror to the woman within four weeks of the date of this decision;
4.6.
condemns the man to pay € 2,000 to the woman with regard to the Hajj within twenty days of the date of this decision;
4.7.
orders the man to pay an amount of € 1,865 to the woman in connection with the costs of selling the property in [place];
4.8.
Declares this decision enforceable in stock, with the exception of the under 4.1.recorded decision;
4.9.
rejects the more or other requested.
This decision was given by J. Lintjer, judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk J. Leertouwer on April 20, 2023.
Against this decision - insofar as it has been definitively decided - an appeal can be lodged by the intervention of a lawyer at the Court of Appeal in Amsterdam.The requesting party and stakeholders appeared must make the appeal within the period of three months after the day of the decision.Other stakeholders must lodge the appeal within three months after the service of this decision or after it has become known in other way and has been openly announced in accordance with Article 820 (2) of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.