ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 4
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 4
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Date of judgment
08-01-2020
Date of publication
15-01-2020
Case
C/13/663277/FA RK 19-1556
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Bridal gift according to Itan law.Woman is declared inadmissible insofar as the bridal gift exceeds the 110 gold coins because it concerns a provision ex art 827, first paragraph under f rv, further treatment leads to unreasonable delay.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Department of Private Law Team Family & Youth Affairs
Case number/Record number: C/13/663277/FA RK 19-1556 and C/13/668500/FA RK 19-3889
Decision of 8 January 2020 on ancillary facilities in the event of divorce
in the case of:
[the man] ,
According to the marriage certificate
[the man]
residing in [residence],
hereinafter referred to as the man,
lawyer mr. D. Rezaie, established in Amsterdam,
in return for
[the woman] ,
According to the marriage certificate
[the woman]
residing in [residence],
hereinafter referred to the woman,
Lawyer A. Hashem Jawaheri, established in Amsterdam.
1
The further procedure
1.1.
By decision of 13 November 2019, the court pronounced the divorce between the parties and maintained the handling of the requests regarding the settlement of matrimonial assets and the Pro forma bridal gift until 9 December 2019.
1.2.
Afterwards, as agreed, the court received the following documents from the parties:
-the F9 form on the part of the woman, with a decision of the Court of Central Netherlands, received on November 4, 2019;
- the written response on the part of the man at the IJI report submitted by the woman at the hearing, received on November 22, 2019;
- The F9 form on the part of the woman with a deed of statement, received on November 26, 2019.
1.3.
Subsequently, the court ruled.
2
The further assessment
2.1.
Now the following - changed - requests are still ahead of the court.
On the man:
1. to determine that the distribution of the community of property existing between the parties is formulated under points 8 to 12 of the petition and
2. Costs legally;
and on the woman's side:
a. to order the man to hand over the distribution and/or settlement of the marital conditions to the woman within 14 days of the date of the decision to be given 1369 Bahare-Azadi gold coins or the equivalent thereof to pay € 390,165, plus the statutory interest on the woman owed and
b.to condemn the man to share his assets with the woman in equal halves and
c.condemn the man to compensate for the woman for her costs of the proceedings.
2.2.
As has already been considered in the decision of 13 November 2019, Iranian law is settled with the settlement of marriage capital, so that the court will apply Iranian law.
2.3.
The following is included in the marriage certificate - as far as relevant to the parties' requests - the following:
“(...)
Marriage Portion: One Volume of the Holy Koran as a Gift for RLS.100,000/-, Together with 1369 Iranian Gold Coins of Bahar Azadi (New Design), Due to Be Paid by the Husband on Wife’s Demand.Signed by Both Parties. (…)
“Conditions Included as Part of the Marriage Contract or Stipulated in A Separate Binding Contract: 1) Per A Separate Binding Contract, The Husband Agreed, If The Divorce is not at the Wife's Request, and According to the Court's Judgment, The Divorce Request isNot Due to the Wife's Violation of Her Marital Duties or Her Misconduct, The Husband Shall Pay Her One Half of his Assets ObweTe Duration the Marital Life or its equivalent as Set by the Court.(...) ”.
Settlement of marriage capital
2.4.
Iranian matrimonial property law has the system of separation of goods.This means exclusion from every community of goods so that what the spouses possessed at the time of entering into marriage and what they acquired during the marriage is and remains private property.If the ownership of certain (household) matters cannot be proven, it is generally assumed that the goods that are usually used by the man belongs to the man and the things that are usually used by the woman belong to the woman.The spouses can provide evidence that this general rule does not apply in their specific case.It is possible that spouses have certain goods in common, for example as a result of a common acquisition.This is free co-ownership that is not the property law consequence of marriage.With regard to debts, the legal system is given that every spouse is liable for the debts entered into.As a rule, debts are allocated to the person in whose name they are.
2.5.
The marriage certificate shows that the parties have agreed that if the divorce is vaccinated at the initiative of the man, the man will pay half of the value of the goods obtained during the marriage.The court finds that none of the parties stated and substantiated that goods were obtained at the time of the (very short) marriage.Now that it has not been shown of goods that have been in common on other land, the court will request the requests on both sides (namely the man's request as mentioned above in 2.1 under 1 and the woman's request as mentioned in 2.1under b.).
Wedding
2.6.
In the marriage certificate signed by both parties, it has been included that the man at the end of bridal gift 1369 Bahar-Azadi would make gold coins (hereafter the Golden Coins) affordable to the woman when the woman asks.
2.7.
The woman has substantiated her request to pay the 1369 gold coins, or the equivalent of it in euros as follows.The man knew very well what amount of gold coins it was.He then knowingly put his signature under the deed, so that there can be no abuse of circumstances under Iranian law.The circumstance that the parties have been married for a short time and have not had any children does not influence the question of whether or not the man can be held to the agreement, no conditions have been set to the bridal gift.The woman and the man have also been married for two years, so there is no very short -term marriage.The number of gold coins can be linked to the date of birth of women to the Iranian calendar and that is certainly not unusual in Iran.
According to the woman, there is in principle no possibility to recalibrate and/or correct the (height of the) bridal gift.The woman has not renounced the bridal gift, so that a claim is due to the full bridal gift.Under Iranian law, the first 110 gold coins must be made immediately affordable.The man risks a prison sentence when he does not give the amount of 110 gold coins to the woman.The "surplus" must be paid in installments if the man has no financial capacity.There is no general legal principle or correction mechanism analogous to the "reasonableness and fairness" within the Iranian legal order on the basis of which the bridal gift can be recovered or adapted because of the man's financial situation.
The woman has further argued that she cannot follow the man in the statement that the woman will not cooperate in the effect of the Dutch decision.This does not play a role in whether or not to grant a bridal gift.The woman finds the statements that the man has submitted of dishes in other European countries is not relevant to the assessment of the dispute.The woman is free to request in the Dutch procedure.The woman has also objected to the statement submitted by the man [person concerned] now that he is not verifiable.It is an e-mail message that has been prepared in a foreign language and has not been translated by a sworn interpreter and whose origin cannot be verified.
2.8.
The man has put forward a defense and stated that there has been abuse of circumstances so that the agreement is voidable.The man did not know the Persian language and it was the woman who was not willing to negotiate the amount of gold coins, as is usual, as usual, before the marriage concludes.
The bridal gift must be set in the alternative under the reasonableness under Iranian law, or moderate.The number of gold coins of 1369 is very high for Iranian standards.Moreover, parties have only lived together for three months.Parties have no children together and in the meantime the woman also lives in the Netherlands from her own choice.The man does not have the financial resources to pay the bridal gift and the woman knows that very well.The man has pointed to various statements by foreign judges in which the bridal gift was moderate on the basis of various circumstances, including the possibility of the woman to independently hold a position, the duration of marriage and the possibilities for asking for living.On the basis of Iranian law, his capacity and capacity must be taken into account.The claiming of more than 110 gold coins has no chance of success in legal proceedings insofar as the man does not have sufficient financial resources or the woman cannot designate assets/assets of the man that can be extracted for the surplus.This is the case in this case.Because the bridal gift consists of much more than 110 gold coins, Iranian law must be conducted under Iranian law, in which - in any case - a different decision can be made by the court about the surplus.The man is worried that a Dutch decision about the bridal gift in Iran will have no effect because, if the woman refuses her cooperation, the Dutch decision in Iran cannot be effected.He refers to the translated e-mail from Mrs. [person concerned], which he brought into the proceedings as production 1.The woman can again involve the man in Iran in a procedure to get the bridal gift paid.For that reason, the man also wants the request to be rejected.
2.9.
The court considers as follows.The bridal gift as agreed in the marriage certificate between the parties must be assessed under Iranian law.The bridal gift has a unique character that, in the opinion of the court, cannot be equated with a livelihood benefit or a good that must be involved in the settlement of the marriage (common) assets.The court therefore does not consider the woman's request as a provision with regard to the distribution of the community or the settlement of income or assets agreed by marriage conditions, as referred to in Article 827, first paragraph under b of the Code of Legal Procedure (Rv), but as a different provision as referred to in Article 827, first paragraph under f rv.Such a request can be included in the context of the divorce procedure if there is sufficient coherence with the divorce request, which condition is met in the present case, and if the handling of the ancillary provision does not lead to unnecessary delay.
2.10.
From the (anonymous) report of the IJI that the woman handed over to the court and the other party at the hearing of 31 October 2019, the court deduces - in short - that Iranian law has a very limited space for recurring and/or correctingFrom the woman's right to the bridal gift when the woman does not agree with this and/or when it is not (extrajudicial) 'suitable'.If it concerns a claim above the 110 gold coins (approx. € 30,000), then proceedings must be made and the capacity of the man can be taken into account in the judicial decision on claims with regard to the (delayed) bridal gift that are even higher.
2.11.
From the actual state of affairs, such as the man who explained further at the hearing of 31 October 2019, the court concludes that the man put his signature under the marriage certificate when he was aware of the number of gold coins from which the bridal giftexisted.He thought it was a high number of coins, but wanted to let the marriage continue anyway.Insofar as the court has been able to determine Iranian law does not have a doctrine as 'abuse of circumstances' as it exists in Dutch law, on the basis of which an agreement with regard to a wedding gift would be voidable, so that the court assumes the text ofthe agreement as drawn up.
2.12.
Both parties agree that the part of the bridal gift consisting of 110 gold coins, according to Iranian law, is not eligible for moderation or nihil statement.This quantity must also be made affordable in the man's vision.
Regarding the "surplus" (1259 gold coins), the parties disagree.
2.13.
The court draws up from the IJI report mentioned under 2.10, which, under Iranian law in the case of a bridal gift higher than 110 gold coins, can certainly exist to adjust the bridal gift.The man's capacity then plays a role and the bridal gift is also used by an Iranian judge as a means to make agreements about the termination of the marriage.
2.14.In view of the views of the parties, the handling of the woman's request to the Dutch court, insofar as this exceeds the number of gold coins of 110, will lead to unnecessary delay that is undesirable in the context of the divorce procedure.This does not meet the request for the requirement as stated in Article 827, first paragraph under f CV, that the handling of the ancillary provision may not lead to unnecessary delay.After all, the court will have to obtain further information about Iranian law and how and how and how and how the man's capacity should be viewed and to what extent that could lead to an adjustment.This is still regardless of whether this judgment of the court is recognized in Iran.For that reason, the court will declare the woman inadmissible in her request insofar as it refers to the payment of the bridal gatter above 110 coins.The request will be granted for 110 gold coins, or the equivalent thereof in euros (as calculated per date decision) plus statutory interest on that amount in euros.It is therefore up to the man to either pay 110 gold coins to the woman, or an amount in euros, converting at the price of the gold coins in euros per the date of this decision, about what amount in euros then legalInterest is due for every day that is paid too late.
2.15.
The court sees no reason to reject the entire request on the basis of the - contradictory - statement of the man that a decision of the Dutch court cannot/would not be effected in Iran.The court assumes that the man - in the event of an Iranian procedure is started - can demonstrate the Iranian court that he has complied with his obligation on the basis of this decision insofar as it concerns the 110 gold coins, for example by a receiptOr a bank statement.
2.16.
Now that the court does not bases its decision on production 1, submitted by the man, the court will pass the woman's defense against submitting this piece in the absence of interest.
Proceedings
2.17.
In view of the nature of the procedure, the court will determine that each of the parties bears their own costs.
3
The decision
The court:
3.1.
rejects the requests of the parties regarding the settlement of marital capital;
3.2.
condemns the man to hand over 110 Bahar-Azadi Gold Coins or the equivalent in Euros (calculated per date decision) by virtue of the bridal gift to the woman, plus the statutory interest on the amount owed to the woman in euros;
3.3.
declares the woman inadmissible in her request to pay more than 110 Bahar-Azadi Gold Coins to the man by virtue of the bridal gift;
3.4.
declares the decision so far and as far as possible enforceable in stock;
3.5.
determines that each party bears its own costs of this procedure;
3.6.
rejects the more or other requested.
This decision was given by H.C.Hoogeveen, judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk M. van den Berg on January 8, 2020.
Against this decision - insofar as it has been definitively decided - an appeal can be lodged by the intervention of a lawyer at the Court of Appeal in Amsterdam.The requesting party and stakeholders appeared must make the appeal within the period of three months after the day of the decision.Other stakeholders must lodge the appeal within three months after the service of this decision or after it has become known in another way and openly announced in accordance with Article 820, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.