ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2023: 1168
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2023: 1168
Instance
Central Appeal Council
Date of judgment
13-06-2023
Date of publication
29-06-2023
Case
21/336 PW
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
Rejection request.Payments on bank account prior to application.Assistance in need of assistance was not made plausible.The appellant did not make it plausible that she was in need of assistance when she applied for the assistance.Large amounts were credited to her bank account prior to her application.The appellant has not made it plausible that she has not been able to have the wage payments credited to her payment account for X.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
21/3136 PW
Central Appeal Council
Single room
Decision on the appeal against the decision of the Noord-Holland District Court of 22 July 2021, 20/5332 (attacked judgment)
Parties:
[Appellente] in [place of residence] (appellant)
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of Zaanstad (the College)
Date of judgment: June 13, 2023
Process
By decision of 8 May 2020, the Commission rejected the appellant for assistance and reclaimed the advance of € 100.The appellant has objected to this, but by decision of 10 September 2020 (contested decision), the Municipal Executive remained with the rejection of the application and the recovery of the advance.
The appellant has appealed against that decision.The court declared the appeal in the attacked decision as unfounded.
On behalf of the appellant, A. Hashem Jawaheri, lawyer, appealed.The Commission has submitted a statement of defense.
The Council dealt with the case at a session of March 21, 2023. The appellant have appeared mr. Hashem Jawaheri and Mr. T. Vinken.The college was represented by R. Mulder and J. Ockers.
Consideration
Resume
This case is about the rejection of the appellant's application for social assistance.The Commission is of the opinion that the appellant did not make it plausible that she was in need of assistance when she applied for the assistance.Large amounts were credited to her bank account prior to her application.The appellant believes that the Commission has not met his obligation to investigate and that it has not been able to have those amounts of money.The council comes to the conclusion that the college has rightly rejected the appellant's application.
Introduction
1. The following facts and circumstances are important when assessing the appeal.
1.1.
The appellant lost her café with upstairs apartment in 2018 by a fire.As a result, she no longer had any income and no more housing.From March 4, 2020, the appellant was able to rent a room.The appellant submitted an application on 17 March 2020 for assistance to the standard for a single person based on the Participation Act (PW).At her application, the appellant submitted copies of its ING payment account (payment account) for the period 1 January 2020 to March 14, 2020. There are several credits of these copies for the period from 3 January 2020 to 7 March 2020 ofamounts ranging from € 30 to € 2,715 to a total amount of more than € 9,000.
1.2.
By letter of 3 April 2020, the College reported the appellant that it has not yet provided all the necessary information to its application.The Board has requested the appellant to hand over the missing data before 17 April 2020, including its bank statements for the period 14 March 2020 to 3 April 2020, documents that show how the appellant has foreseen in its living in the period from 1 September 2018 to 3 April2020 and a completed and signed questionnaire.The appellant provides the completed questionnaire, a collection letter for its health insurance premium, the lease of her room and copies of her checking account from 14 March 2020 to 10 April 2020.The appellant has explained that from September 2018 she has provided for her livelihood by sleeping with friends and family.They have given her food and money.
1.3.On April 21, 2020, an employee of the municipality of Zaanstad contacted the appellant by telephone to discuss that the providers provided are not sufficient and that several inserts and depreciation on her checking account give the impression that the appellant has a company.The appellant has announced that those side and depreciation are not from her, but from X, a friend who has his own plumbing company.He had the amounts on the appellant's account included and depreciate because he had lost his debit card.The employee then informed the appellant that she must be able to prove this with supporting documents.
1.4.
By letter of 21 April 2020, the College offered the appellant a recovery period to provide more supporting documents, including verifiable evidence of the credits that the appellant has received.The appellant did not respond to this letter.
1.5.
By decision of 8 May 2020, the Commission rejected the appellant's application and reclaimed the advance granted to the appellant of € 100.
1.6.
During the objection procedure, the appellant submitted additional information with the help of the Social Neighborhood Team.These include a list of credits on its checking account, written statements about a number of these credits, invoices from the plumbing company of X and a written statement of X. This writes that those invoices are for work that he has carried out at third parties, and that his income was deposited into the appellant's account because he had lost his bank card.A telephone hearing took place on August 6, 2020, with the appellant being assisted by an employee of the Social Neighborhood Team.On 19 and 20 August 2020, an employee of the municipality of Zaanstad contacted the appellant by telephone to ask further questions about a number of credits and to give her opportunity to send further evidence about the credits within two weeks.After that, this employee tried twice without success to speak the appellant by telephone.The appellant has not used the opportunity to provide further information.
1.7.
In the contested decision, the Municipal Executive declared the appellant's objection unfounded.The Commission has based this on the basis that the appellant did not make it plausible that she could not have the credited wage payments of X, which amount to a total of € 8,553.The appellant has not submitted any verifiable information that shows that X could not use his own bank account and how she reimbursed the credits for X to him.The bank statements show that amounts were regularly included in cash of the appellant's payment account, but it has not been demonstrated to which these amounts were spent and that they have actually been repaid to X.The Commission finds it remarkable that X as an entrepreneur did not immediately apply for a new bank card, but waited three months, while according to the website of his bank a replacement payment card can be received within three days in the event of losing a pass.The appellant has not submitted any verifiable information about four other credits of a total of € 460, which shows that these credits arise from the sale of private goods via Marktplaats, as the appellant himself stated.It follows that the appellant has not made it plausible that she was in need of assistance.
Judgment of the court
2. The court has declared the appeal against the contested decision unfounded and thereby maintained the contested decision.
The appellant's position
3. The appellant does not agree with the decision of the court.What she has put forward against this is discussed below.
The Council's opinion
4. The Council assesses whether the court has rightly maintained the decision of the Board to reject the appellant's application and to reclaim € 100 to payments paid.He does this on the basis of the arguments that appellant, as explained at the hearing at the hearing, put forward the appeal grounds.The Council comes to the conclusion that the appeal does not succeed.After this, the Council explains how he comes to this judgment and what consequences this has.
4.1.
The legal rules that are important for the assessment of the appeal can be found in the appendix to this ruling.
4.2.
The period to be assessed runs from 17 March 2020 (the date of the application) up to and including 8 May 2020 (the date of the decision on which the application was rejected).
4.3.This is a rejection of an application for assistance.Someone who applies for assistance must make it plausible that he is entitled to assistance.The burden of proof of the need for assistance therefore in principle rests on the applicant.An applicant must therefore make facts and circumstances plausible that provide clarity about his living and living situation and about his financial situation.After that, the assistance authority must check this information for accuracy and completeness in the context of the obligation to investigate.If the applicant does not make it plausible that he is in assistance -appropriate circumstances, this is a ground for rejection of the application.If the Municipal Executive makes it plausible that an applicant has violated the information or cooperation obligation, this is a ground for rejection of the application if the right to assistance cannot be determined as a result.The Commission explained at the hearing that violation of the information or cooperation obligation is not on the agenda.The basis of the rejection is that the appellant has not made it plausible that she was in need of assistance.
4.3.1.
For the assessment of whether the applicant is in the need for assistance, his or her financial situation is an essential fact.The applicant is obliged to submit the information required for a good assessment of the application.In the context of the investigation into the right to assistance, the assistance authority is authorized to request information relating to the financial situation, also for the period that immediately precedes the date with effect from which assistance is requested.This is settled case law.
1
4.4.
It is not in dispute that in the period mentioned by 1.1 credits were made on the appellant's payment account of a total of € 9,013 in the period of 3 January 2020 to 7 March 2020.This amount is excluding the credit of 18 February 2020 of € 100 by X. Following the hearing, the Commission no longer throws this credit against the appellant.It is also not disputed that the amount of € 9,013 is € 460 from private sales by the appellant to third parties.It follows that the parties disagree whether the appellant could have the amount credited to its checking account of a total of € 8,553.
Could the appellant have the amount of € 8,553 and was the college's investigation complete?
4.5.
The appellant has argued that the credits on her checking account are payments of invoices that X has written to third parties for work he has done for them.Because X was lost his bank card, the appellant allowed X to have these amounts added to her account.X has confirmed this in a written statement.According to the appellant, the fact that these credits are actually payments from X is sufficient from the invoices it submitted and the descriptions stated on the bank statements for the various credits.The appellant's position is that she has not been able to dispose of these credited amounts.On appeal and on appeal, the appellant stated that she has taken this amounts in cash for X received and handed it to X.
4.5.1.
The appellant has further argued that the Municipal Executive should have conducted further investigation into the copies of her checking account it submitted by it.The Commission should have checked whether in addition to the cash recordings, with which she has repaid X, there were also depreciation of her bank account that is clear that they have been spent on the business activities of X and therefore benefited X.At the hearing, the appellant pointed out, among other things, the depreciation to [Y] on January 8, 2020 of € 1,024.52 and on January 15, 2020 of € 426.54, the depreciation to Hornbach on 8 and 17 January 2020 of € 47.20And € 34.95 and several depreciation to Shell.
4.5.2.These professional grounds do not succeed.The starting point is that the fact that a bank account is in the name of a person concerned, subject to proof to the contrary - means that the credit on that account forms a component of the assets he/she has or can reasonably have.The appellant has not succeeded in providing proof to the contrary and has not made it plausible that she has not been able to have the wage payments credited to her payment account for X.The Council notes that no transfers can be seen on X on the appellant's bank statements.Insofar as the appellant would have recorded the wage payments in cash for X for X and X for X and X would have given that it is a difference of more than € 2,400, between those credits and the cash recordings of a total of € 6,140,--, these amounts do not match, so that the appellant X could at most have repaid partly in cash.However, the fact that appellant X actually partially reimbursed the money from the pin recordings has not substantiated it in a verifiable way.On behalf of the appellant, it was still argued at the hearing that a number of depreciation can also be seen on her bank statements, from which it can be deduced that they have benefited the business activities of X, such as expenditure for [Y], Hornbach, Shell and financial services.Only the depreciation for [Y] is plausible that these are intended for the business activities of X.Of the other costs, it is not automatically clear due to the lack of further explanation that these relate to the business activities of X. Even if those costs were taken into account, in total, it is only a total of an amount of less than € 2,700,-, so it cannot be said that the same amount of company expenditure of X was said to the company receptions of € 8,553.Moreover, the expenditure for the business activities of X as such cannot affect the receipts obtained with those business activities on the appellant's checking account.Finally, it is not possible to see why X could not have had a new bank card in the short term, so that he should not have used the appellant's payment account.
4.5.3.
Now that the appellant has not made it plausible that she has not been able to have the wage credits for X on its checking account, the Commission has therefore rightly taken the position that the appellant did not take it plausible that she was in need of assistance.For that reason, the credits that the appellant would have received with marketplace sales may or may not have received and no longer need to be discussed.By analyzing the bank statements and the other documents submitted by the appellant, including the declaration of X and by giving the appellant the opportunity several times to substantiate with verifiable documents that they have not had that money, the Commission has his obligation to investigatemet.
Are the credits wrongly regarded as resources to be taken into account?
4.6.
The appellant pointed out the decision of the Council of 7 May 2015 mentioned in the attacked decision referred to in the judgment.
2
It states that cash deposits and credits on a bank account of a social assistance recipient are in principle regarded as the means to be taken into account that the social assistance recipient has or can have within the meaning of Article 31, first paragraph of the PW.In that judgment, the possibility of judging otherwise if, as in the case of the appellant, the person concerned is pending a decision on request and she is dependent on taking out loans for provision for the costs of living.
4.6.1.
This professional ground does not succeed.It is indeed settled case law that a person concerned is in principle not entitled to assistance if and insofar as he/she provides periodic means of living by taking out loans.
3This can be different if that person concerned is present for the provision of loans in a period in which no or inadequate income is present for the provision of livelihood.To this end, the person concerned must in any case make it plausible that he has no other sufficient income and that it concerns loans provided for living.The person concerned must make those loans plausible from whom, when, in what way and to what amount he received the loan.The person concerned must also make it plausible that when payment, and not later, the agreement was made that it concerns a loan and that it must therefore be repaid, and that that loan is intended for living.A bank transfer with the mention "Living Living Living", where the identity of the creditor is established, will in principle suffice for this.This is also set case law.
4
4.6.2.
The appellant cannot successfully appeal to this case law.It is important for this that the appellant did not state that she has borrowed these credited amounts from X.After all, the appellant stated that these amounts were not for or from her and that she could not have it.
Recovery advance
4.7.
The appellant has not created independent grounds against the recovery of the advance of € 100.This therefore does not need further discussion.
Conclusion and consequences
4.8.
The appeal therefore does not succeed.The attacked judgment is confirmed.This means that the contested decision will be maintained and the Municipal Executive was right to reject the appellant of 17 March 2020 for assistance and has rightly proceeded to reclaim the advance of € 100.
4.9.
The appellant therefore does not receive any reimbursement for her litigation costs.She also does not receive the court fee paid.
DECISION
The Central Appeal Council confirms the attacked decision.
This statement was made by M.F.Wagner, in the presence of M. Ramanand as clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on 13 June 2023.
(signed) M.F.Wagner
(signed) M. Ramanand
Appendix: Important legal rules for this judgment
Article 11, first paragraph, Participation Act
Every Dutchman who lives in the Netherlands who is here in the Netherlands in such circumstances or is in danger of becoming that he does not have the means to provide for the necessary costs of existence, is entitled to the government.
Article 17, first paragraph, Participation Act
The interested party shall notify the Municipal Executive at the request or immediately on his own initiative of all facts and circumstances that must reasonably be clear to him that they can influence his employment or the right to assistance.
Article 31, first paragraph, Participation Act
The resources include all asset and income components that the single or the family has or can reasonably have.The resources also include the means that are received by a person who is not included in social assistance for the livelihood of the person concerned.
Article 58, second paragraph, sub d, Participation Act
The Municipal Executive that has provided assistance can reclaim the costs of assistance, insofar as the assistance has been provided by way of an advance pursuant to Article 52 and it has been established afterwards that there is no entitlement to assistance.
1
See the ruling of January 4, 2011, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2011: BP1399.
2
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2015: 1450.
3
See the ruling of January 22, 2013, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2013: by9138.
4
See, among other things, the ruling of 15 September 2015, ECLI: NL: CRB: 2015: 3188.