ECLI: NL: RBOVE: 2021: 4756
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBOVE: 2021: 4756
Instance
Overijssel District Court
Date of judgment
13-12-2021
Date of publication
20-12-2021
Case
C/08/264588/ES RK 21-2260
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Order
Contents indication
Iranian law applies to the wealth settlement of the parties.The parties are married after the entry into force of the matrimonial property law Regulation.The man did not live in the Netherlands and the woman at the time of closing.The so -called "Terms and Conditions" are included in the marriage certificate.These "Terms and Conditions" are considered marital conditions.O.g.v.Article 25, paragraph 2, third paragraph Huwver VO, these marital conditions are not valid.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Overijssel District Court
Location Almelo
Family and juvenile law team
Case number: C/08/264588/ES RK 21-2260
Decision of December 13, 2021
regarding
[applicant]
,, "
further: the man,
residing in [residence],
the applicant,
Lawyer: B.A.M.Old Breuil,
and
[interested party]
,, "
further: the woman,
residing in [residence],
stakeholder,
Lawyer: previously A. Hashem Jawaheri.
1
The further process
1.1.
On July 19, 2021, the court gave an interim decision in this case.
1.2.
The court then took note of the following documents:
- a deferment request from Mr. Hashem Jawaheri on 2 August 2021;
- a F2 form of Hashem Jawaheri on 6 August 2021;
- an F9 form from Hashem Jawaheri on 16 August 2021 of 16 August 2021 with appendices;
- an e-mail message from mr. Oude Breuil van on 12 September 2021
September 12, 2021 with appendices.
1.3.
On November 2, 2021, the court registry
Parties sent an e-mail message that shows that the court understands that the woman no longer wants to respond to the man's last reaction and that the parties want the case to be settled in writing.No response was received with this.
2
The facts
For the facts, reference is made to the aforementioned decision of 19 July 2021.
3
The further assessment
By the aforementioned decision of 19 July 2021, the court in the case with
number C/08/261118/ES RK 21-597, among other things, and has spoken the divorce and has
she in the case with number C/08/264588/ES RK 21-2260 every decision with regard
arrested to settle the matrimonial property regime.
The property settlement
3.1.
In the decision of 19 July 2021, the court has 6.19 in legal consideration.Considering and decided that Iranian matrimonial property law applies to the matrimonial property system.The parties were then given the opportunity by the court to express themselves on the property settlement under Iranian law.
3.2.
There is an Iranian law
no
common capital between the parties;Under Iranian law, the matrimonial property regime entails complete exclusion of each goods community.It follows from the system of the separation of goods in principle that what the spouses possessed at the time of entering into marriage and what they have acquired during the marriage remains private ownership and does not fall into any marriage community.Debts must be attributed to the person in whose name they are.If the ownership of certain (household) cases cannot be proven, it is generally assumed that the things that are usually used by a man belong to men and vice versa, the matters that are usually used by a woman belong to women.The spouses can provide evidence that this general regulation does not apply in their specific case.
"Terms and Conditions" in the marriage certificate to be regarded as valid marital conditions?
3.3.
The court has taken note of the marriage certificate of the parties.This includes so -called "Terms and Conditions" regarding the capacity accrued during the marriage and the way in which and conditions under which this ability is distributed between the spouses.The court is of the opinion that these "Terms and Conditions" can be regarded as marital conditions within the meaning of Article 25 Huwvervo.
3.4.
Article 25, paragraph 1, Huwvervo determines that marital conditions, in terms of form, are valid if they have been written down and signed by both spouses.The marriage certificate and therefore the "Terms of Conditions" have been dated and signed by both spouses.
3.5.Article 25, paragraph 2, third paragraph Huwvervo then stipulates that if only one of the spouses has its habitual residence in a Member State where marital conditions are subject to additional formal requirements when entering into the agreement, who apply.The man lived in the Netherlands at the time of closing the marriage in the Netherlands and the woman only settled in the Netherlands on January 31, 2020.In the Netherlands it applies that marital conditions must be entered into by notarial deed on pain of nullity.It has neither been stated nor proved that this has been done.In view of this, the court is of the opinion that the "Terms and Conditions" can be regarded as marital conditions that are in their form
not 
being valid.
This does not alter the fact that, on the basis of Article 1119 of the Iranian Civil Code of Spirors, marital conditions may agree, provided they are not contrary to the nature of the marriage contract and are laid down in the marriage contract or in another binding document.Based on the Huwvervo
no
there are legally valid conditions (which would have been otherwise if the Hague Marriage Contribution 1978 would apply).This means that there is no community power and that the woman is not entitled to half of the assets acquired by the man during the marriage, or its value.
The Mazda and (the balance on) the bank accounts
3.6.
This applies in any case to the car (Mazda) and (the positive balance on) the bank accounts.
The household effects
3.7.
With regard to the household effects, the court considers as follows.The woman stated that the man would have purchased a television and furniture during the wedding.It is therefore not in dispute that these household effects belong to the man owned.Now that the woman has not, at least insufficiently stated, there is (household) cases, of which ownership cannot be determined and used by her, so that she would also belong to her, this request must also be made of the womanturned down.Moreover, the court turned out that the television mentioned by the woman was purchased by the man on 13 November 2017 (ie before the marriage), follows from the documents submitted.
Jewelry
3.8.
In this regard, the jewelery is considering the court as follows.The woman has stated that she left jewelery in the marital home worth € 5,000.The man must return the jewelery to the woman or reimburse the value of this to the woman.The man disputes that the woman has left jewelery in the home.
3.9.
The court is of the opinion that, in view of the motivated dispute by the man, the woman insufficiently substantiated that there were jewelery, whose jewelery are, which jewelery would be and that these jewelery were left in the former marital home.
Conclusion
The court is of the opinion that the claims of the woman, as stated under 3. and 4. of her petitum, are therefore not pronounced, since there is a separation between the parties.This request will therefore be rejected.
The gold coin (bridal gift)
3.10.
The woman states that the man has to pay her a bridal gift of 1 golden
Mint Bahar-e Azadi.According to the woman, this has a value of € 428.60.
3.11.
The man acknowledges that he is obliged to pay the gold coin to the woman.The
According to the man, the value of this is € 350 (to be calculated via www.bombast.com).The man is prepared to hand over the coin to the woman and he will not pay the value of this.According to him, the coin should be handed over in the presence of a witness.With regard to the man, this can be an employee of the Iranian embassy who will then prepare a statement about the issue of the currency to the woman.This is usually done by a so -called Iranian notary, working at the embassy, Mr [X].The court is requested to determine this.
3.12.
The court is of the opinion that the bridal gift should be qualified as a claim Sui Generis.Iranian law applies, being the right to which the entitlement to the bridal gift was established.Pursuant to Article 1082 of the Iranian law of 1935, the woman is entitled and owner of the bridal gift from the day of marriage.The woman claims 1 gold coin and the man is willing to hand over this coin to the woman in the presence of a witness, an employee of the Iranian embassy, such as Mr [X]).The court will grant this request from the woman and attach a time to this.
The costs of the proceedings
3.13.
As usual in cases of a family law nature, the court will compensate for the costs of the proceedings, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
4
The decision
The court:
4.1.stipulates that within three months after today the man the man meets one gold coin Bahar-e Azadi to the woman in the presence of a witness of the Iranian embassy, such as Mr [X];
4.2.
rejects the requests and claims of women in the context of the division/ settlement of the marital capital;
4.3.
explains part 4.1.of this decision enforceable in stock;
4.4.
compensates for the costs of this procedure in the sense that each party bears its own costs;
4.5.
Disives the lake or otherwise requested.
This decision was given by H.M. Jongeur and pronounced in public
December 13, 2021 in the presence of M.H.Falkmann-Herber, clerk.