ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2021: 5505
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2021: 5505
Instance
Court of Noord-Holland
Date of judgment
07-07-2021
Date of publication
15-07-2021
Case
C/15/311469/HA SA 20-797
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
Ground shop
Contents indication
Claim for payment Iranian dowry rejected.Parties have already incorporated the dowry into other agreements that they have made in the context of their divorce.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Court of Noord-Holland
Trade, canton and insolvency
Seat Haarlem
Case number / Role number: C / 15/311469 / HA SA 20-797
Judgment of 7 July 2021 (upon advance)
in the case of
[plaintiff]
,, "
living in [place 1],
Plaintiff,
lawyer mr. K. Mohasselzadeh in The Hague,
in return for
[defendant]
,, "
living in [place 2],
defendant,
Lawyer F. Bouyaghjdane in Rotterdam.
Parties will be mentioned below the woman and the man.
The case in short
The woman claims payment of the remainder of her dowry.The man argues that the parties have made an appointment in the context of the divorce, whereby the woman has abandoned the dowry in exchange for an appointment about a contribution to her livelihood.The woman disputes that this agreement has replaced her claim to the remainder of her dowry.The court is of the opinion that the man has sufficiently substantiated the appointment he sets and rejects the claims of the woman.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
The interlocutory judgment of 3 February 20221
-
The oral treatment on June 16, 2021 and the notes kept by the clerk of that session.
1.2.
Finally, a judgment was determined.
2
The facts
2.1.
Parties were married in Iran on September 23, 2003.In the Iranian marriage certificate, parties were agreed, among other things, that the man as a dowry would meet the woman 1970 entire Bahar-e Azadi (Iranian Golden Coins) at the request of the woman.
2.2.
On September 25, 2008, the woman in Iran had a notarial deed recorded that she received 1773 Golden Bahar-e Azadi coins of her dowry in cash and that the man still has to pay Golden Bahar-e Azadi coins to her.
2.3.
On 28 October 2014, the parties in a notarial deed changed their matrimonial property regime in the sense that they have made marital conditions where they have excluded every community of goods.
2.4.
The marriage is dissolved by divorce.The divorce decision of 3 April 2019 of the Amsterdam District Court is registered in the registers of the Civil Registry of the municipality of The Hague.
2.5.
To arrange the consequences of their divorce, the parties had a covenant drawn up on 5 March 2019.This covenant - insofar as relevant here - involves the following:
(...)
1.
Partner alimony
1.1
Based on the determined need and capacity, the parties agree that the man will meet the woman for a period of 10 years after the date of this agreement an amount of EUR 600 every month.The man will ensure that the woman will receive the amount of partner alimony at the latest at the end of the month.The first payment will be made in March 2019. The amount of partner alimony will be increased by 20% to March 2020 to
EUR 720.Furthermore, the amount of partner alimony will be increased by 20% in March 2021 to EUR 864.After these two increases in the first two years after the conclusion of this agreement, the amount of partner alimony will be cumulatively increased by 10% annually until the end of the 12-year period in which the partner alimony must be paid.
(...)
7. Assignment
The parties declare this, subject to the rights and obligations referred to in this covenant, to claim nothing more and to give each other general and final discharge.
3
The dispute
3.1.
The woman in summary - that the court will condemn the man to deliver 197 Iranian gold coins of Bahar Azadi, condemning the man in the costs of this procedure.
3.2.
The woman based on her claim that the man does not comply with his obligations from the Iranian marriage certificate.She states that she can claim the agreed dowry at any time of the man and that she did in a letter of 27 August 2020. She points out that, despite the divorce in the Netherlands, it is still married to Iranian law, but that she can claim the agreed dowry at any time, even after the marriage has ended.
3.3.The man defends.He disputes that the woman can still claim her dowry.He argues that in the context of the divorce, the parties have made a replacement agreement on the dowry which agreement is included in a covenant signed by them in which they further declare that they have nothing more of each other, subject to the obligations from the covenantAnd grant each other's general and final discharge.
3.4.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, insofar as relevant.
4
The assessment
4.1.
The woman states that the dowry under Iranian law has its own unique character, so that it cannot be equated with a livelihood and that the agreement on partner alimony in the covenant does not relate to the dowry.She emphasizes that the dowry is due at any time, even after the marriage has ended, but that parties are still married in the Netherlands under Iranian law despite the divorce in the Netherlands.She argues that she therefore has a claim right to the man under the dowry, to which Iranian law claim applies.
To substantiate her statement, she points to a decision of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal of 17 November 2020 and a judgment of the Supreme Court of 23 April 2021 (ECLI: NL: HR: 2021: 646) and argues that in the decision of the Court of AppealAmsterdam, among other things, it has been decided that a dowry of 110 Golden Bahar Azadi can be granted under Iranian law, so that its claim is at least granted to that number and that when allocating the superior and the way in which the superior will have to beSatisfied eight must be taken on the carrying capacity of the man.
4.2.
The man takes the position that Dutch law applies to the dowry.He emphasizes that the parties have made a further appointment in the settlement of their divorce, which means that the woman is sold the dowry and that he will pay an amount of € 600 per month to the woman for her living for 10 years, instead for 10 years, which monthly amount with effect from March 2020 is indexed by 20% to € 720 per month and from March 2021 by 20% to an amount of € 864 and will then be increased annually by 10% to the end ofthe 12-year term in which the partner alimony must be paid.He declares that that scheme is also implemented, but that he was unable to pay for 2 months only last year as a result of the Corona measures and that the woman has called in the LBIO due to that backlog.He also argues that the value of the coins owed to the woman is estimated at € 60,000 and that he, in the end he will have paid about € 71,000 to her, so that the woman gets more than what she would be entitled to,But that he has agreed to meet her.
4.3.
The court considers as follows.In the statements cited by the woman it has indeed been considered that the dowry under Iranian law has its own unique character, which means that it cannot be equated with a livelihood or a matrimonial property claim and that the dowry can be claimed at any time, both during and and andafter the marriage.
The aforementioned decision of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal includes a quote from a report from the International Legal Institute on the dowry in Iran.In this quote it is concluded that Iranian law leaves a very limited space for recurring and/or correcting the woman's right to a dowry when the woman does not agree and/or if there is not (extrajudicial) suitable.
4.4.
The woman has emphasized that a dowry cannot be equated with a living benefit and that for that reason she still has a claim right, but this argument cannot help her here.In the opinion of the court, the man has sufficiently demonstrated that the parties have made an appointment in mutual consultation that can be equated with an extrajudicial settlement.The court takes the following consideration.
4.5.
From the e-mail correspondence submitted by the man of the then joint lawyer of the parties, mr. Jawaheri, it follows that parties have reached agreement on a settlement on the dowry.This is evident, among other things, from the e-mail of 18 February 2019 which contains the following:
Dear Geer [defendant] and Mrs. [plaintiff],
I understand that you have had consultations and have come to a compromise about all the things related to your divorce.In short, the most important agreements are as follows:
(...)3) The dowry will cancel the woman and in exchange for this the man will pay the woman EUR 500 every month for a period of 10 years.
4.6.
The fact that the parties have negotiated further on this point is evident from the various draft versions that have been changed and in which adjustments have been made with regard to the amount of the monthly amount that the man should pay to the woman and the amount of the indexation that annually on the monthly toopay amount would be applied.
In the end, the parties reached agreement on the text as it was shown in Article 1 of the covenant of 5 March 2019 (quoted in r.o. 2.5).The fact that the agreements made to the parties relate to more than purely a contribution from the man in the livelihood of women under Dutch law is clear from the fact that no capacity calculation was preceded by determining the amount and that the parties (very)high annual indexation percentages have been agreed.
4.7.
For that reason, the court is of the opinion that the present case is not comparable to the case as it occurred in the judgments of Court of Appeal Amsterdam (in which case to the entire settlement of the matrimonial property community and dowry Iranian law applyWas) whether the Supreme Court (in which case had not been established that the man had already paid the dowry) so that the woman's profession on that case law has no purpose.
4.8.
Furthermore, in Article 7 of the covenant, the parties have stated that they would not have any more of each other and granted each other over and over again and final discharge referred to in the covenant.The woman has not made a reservation in the covenant with regard to the dowry.Now that the e-mail correspondence shows that the dowry and the abendant by the woman has explicitly been the subject of conversation between the parties in the run-up to the covenant, it is considered that in view of the agreements made and the general and final discharge, the woman hasagreed to this method of settlement of (also) the dowry and therefore - also under Iranian law - no longer has a claim right to the man under the dowry.
4.9.
The woman still argues that Jawaheri mr. The man's lawyer was and that she is insufficiently powerful and therefore did not understand what she signed for the signing of the covenant, but in this defense the court does not follow her.The man pointed out at the hearing that the woman at the time
Jawaheri mr. Having the divorce because this Dutch lawyer also speaks the Iranian language and could discuss things with the woman in her own language.The man declares that only later, with the approval of the woman, it was decided that Jawaheri would both assist them in a common divorce request in order to speed up the divorce procedure.
The woman has not contradicted this state of affairs.The man further emphasizes that
Jawaheri mr. The covenant on 5 March 2019, prior to the signing at his office, fully went through with parties and he offers to make Mr. Jawaheri heard about this as a witness.However, the woman has not contradicted the covenant
Jawaheri with the parties was discussed with the parties prior to the signing, so that the court assumes the accuracy of the man's statement.The court therefore has no reason to assume that the woman was unknown or could be with the content of the covenant signed by a language barrier.
4.10.
The woman's claim is rejected.Because it must have been clear to the woman that she could no longer claim the original dowry, the court sees reason to deviate from the main rule that the costs of the proceedings between former spouses are compensated in the sense that each party bears its own costs.The woman is convicted of the costs of the procedure to date on the part of the man estimated at:
Fixed right € 937.00
Lawyer Salary
€ 2,228.00
(2 points at € 1,114.00)
Total € 3,165.00.
5
The decision
The court
5.1.
rejects the advanced;
5.2.
orders the woman to pay the man of an amount of € 3,165.00 in respect of the costs of the proceedings.
This verdict was given by mr. W.S.J.Thijs and pronounced in public on July 7, 2021.
1
1
Type: 1155Coll: