ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 2869
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 2869
Instance
Court of Central Netherlands
Date of judgment
22-05-2023
Date of publication
21-08-2023
Case
C/16/553749/FO RK 23-309
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Oral statement
,, "
Proceedings order
,, "
Police report
,, "
Order
Contents indication
Request the VADERGEN VADERG.No change in circumstances since the previous decision less than a year ago.Proceedings order;Needless litigation and mother has to use savings from the children to pay a lawyer.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
SDU News Personal and Family Law 2023/483
Pfr-updates.nl 2023-0183
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Central Netherlands
Family law
Location Utrecht
Case number: C/16/553749/FO RK 23-309
Official report of the oral ruling as referred to in Article 29a of the Code of Civil Procedure during the hearing of 22 May 2023
in the case of:
[the father]
,, "
living in [hometown 1],
hereinafter referred to as: the father,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri,
in return for
[the mother]
,, "
living at a address known to the court,
hereinafter referred to as: the mother,
Lawyer mr. W.Y.Hofstra.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The requests are the minors of the parents:
-
[minor 1]
, born in [place], on [date of birth 1] 2014;
-
[minor 2]
, born in [place], on [date of birth 2] 2015.
The mother only has authority over [minor 1] and [minor 2].That means that she can only make the important decisions about the children.
1.2.
The court received the following documents:
-
The petition of the father (with appendices), arrived on March 9, 2023
-
The defense of the mother (with appendices) of 15 May 2023.
1.3.
On March 9, 2023, the court received a petition from the father with appendices.The father asks the court to record a care scheme in which the father has arranged with the children once every two weeks on Saturday afternoon from 12:00 to 13:00.On May 15, 2023, the court then received a statement of defense from the mother.She does not agree with the father's request, because she is not currently in the interest of finding an access arrangement with the father in the interest of [minor 1] and [minor 2].In addition, she requests the father to order the costs of this procedure.
1.4.
The request was discussed during the oral hearing (session) of 22 May 2023. The father with his lawyer and Mr J.W.The man as an interpreter, the mother with her lawyer and Mr [A] on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter the Council).
1.5.
After the end of the oral hearing, the court made a verbal decision in application of Article 29a of the Code of Civil Procedure.The decision and the grounds on which it is based are shown below.
2
The decision
The court:
2.1.
points out the father's request with regard to the establishment of an access arrangement between him and
[minor 1]
, born in [place], on [date of birth 1] 2014 and
[minor 2]
, born in [place], on [date of birth 2] 2015, AF;
2.2.
condemns the father in the costs of this procedure on the part of the mother, estimated at € 1,510;
2.3.
explains this decision enforceable in stock.
3
The grounds of the decision
3.1.
The court bases the following considerations on this decision.The court is of the opinion that the establishment of an access arrangement between the father and the children is still contrary to their compelling interests.Too little has changed in the situation and behavior of the father since the decision of 21 June 2022, as a result of which the arguments that have been based on that decision still apply.The court understands that the father would like to see his children.In addition, it is in principle in the interest of children to have contact with both their parents.However, the court will have to take the capacity of the children as a starting point.This means that the father - before a way can take place in a way that can take place in a way - can show that he does what is needed for the children to make that possible.The children don't know their father at all.The man went abroad when [minor 1] was a baby, and the woman was pregnant with [minor 2].For the children better contact with the father, therefore, a first introduction to EM.The Council already advised in July 2021 what the father should do, to make contact repair with the children possible.For example, he has to make every effort to learn the Dutch language to be able to communicate with his children, write letters or cards and take the initiative for a mediation process with the mother.The court has endorsed the advice of the council and gave the father more than - by maintaining the case - the opportunity to show that he is taking that advice to heart.At the session, the father said that he would like to call in an interpreter to talk to his children.However, that is not what he has been advised.The father further explained at the hearing that he started a Dutch language course, but he has not shown any pieces of it.He sent a card once but did not do it again because he didn't hear anything from the children.He also told him to blame the mother for not taking a step in his direction.The man is willing to provide insight to the council if the council wants to investigate further into his life.
3.2.
On the basis of the foregoing, the court notes that the father has still not taken the advice to heart, while another year has passed after the previous oral treatment.Nothing has changed.There has been a long run -up to the decision of the court of 21 June 2022. The man has had ample time and chance to show that he does what the children need to make contact with their father possible.He didn't do that.This means that the court still finds dealing with the father contrary to their compelling interests.
3.3.
Finally, the court will condemn the father for the costs of the proceedings.The court believes that this procedure was necessary.It has been made clear to the father several times what he should do to play a role in the lives of the children.Yet the father does not take these advice to heart, and he starts again a procedure.That, while the mother has stated undisputed that, unlike the father, she is not eligible for financed legal aid, because she exceeds the wealth limit.That capacity concerns the money she saves for the children.She had to use that savings for legal assistance in this procedure.In view of this, the court deviates from the starting point that proceedings between former spouses are compensated.
3.4.
The court will determine the costs of the proceedings with the application of the liquidation rate based on the flat -rate costs in civil matters.The court estimates the costs of the proceedings on the part of the father thus:
-
Salary lawyer € 1,196 (2 points x € 598 (rate II));
-
court fee
€ 314,-
Total € 1,510,-
This decision was given orally and pronounced in public on 22 May 2023 by T. Dopheide, (children's) judge, in the presence of the clerk, of which this official report was drawn up on 6 June 2023.
Against this decision - insofar as it has been definitively - an appeal is made through the intervention of a lawyer
are set at the Court of Appeal in Arnhem-Leeuwarden.The requesting party and stakeholders appeared must make the appeal within the period of three months after the day of the decision.
Hm