ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 3263
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 3263
Instance
Rotterdam District Court
Date of judgment
15-04-2022
Date of publication
02-05-2022
Case
Rot 21/4611
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Assistance.The defendant has not made it plausible that there was a cost -resident co -resident throughout the entire period to be assessed, nor that the obligation to provide information was violated.The contested decision is not carefully prepared and not properly motivated.The appeal is well -founded and the defendant must again decide on the objections.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Rotterdam District Court
Administrative law
Case number: Rot 21/4611
Decision of the single Chamber of 15 April 2022 in the case between
[name of plaintiff], from [place], plaintiff,
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of Schiedam, defendant,
(authorized representative: [name of authorized representative]).
Process
With the decision of 19 January 2021 (the primary decision 1), the defendant changed the standard of the claimant's social assistance benefit from 1 January 2021 to the cost sharing standard for a double household.
With the decision of 16 February 2021 (the primary decision 2), the defendant revised the right to the claimant's assistance for the period from 15 May 2020 to 31 December 2020 and reclaimed an amount of € 2,281.02 from the plaintiff.
With the decision of 21 May 2021 (the primary decision 3), the defendant replaced the primary decision 2, revised the right to the plaintiff's assistance for the period 1 June 2020 to 31 December 2020 and an amount of € 2,116.14 from the plaintiffreclaimed.
By decision of 26 August 2021 (the contested decision), the defendant declared the claimant's objections to the primary decisions unfounded.
Plaintiff has appealed against the contested decision.
The court dealt with the appeal on December 15, 2021 at the hearing.Plaintiff has appeared, assisted by her agent.The defendant has been represented by his authorized representative.At the end of the hearing, the court closed the investigation.
By letter of December 17, 2021, the court announced that it reopened the investigation and asked the plaintiff to refer to the report of the home visit - to which the professional phase was referred by both parties, but that only in the file of another appeal case ofPlaintiff (Rot 21/4612) is - added to the file of this professional case.By letter of 19 January 2022, the plaintiff stated that the report of the home visit should not be added to the file of this appeal case.During the handling of her other appeal case (ROT 21/4612) at the hearing on 2 March 2022, the plaintiff returned to this position and, like the defendant, indicated that the report of the home visit can be added to the file of this appeal case.This then happened.
After none of the parties indicated that they want to be heard at a further session, the court closed the investigation (again).
Consideration
Introduction
1.1.
With effect from 20 January 2020, the defendant has granted social assistance benefits on the basis of the Participation Act (PW) to the standard for a single person.The plaintiff's brother has been registered at the address of the plaintiff since March 2015.Because he studied at the time of the allocation decision and was entitled to student finance, the defendant did not apply the cost sharing standard to the claimant's social assistance benefit.The defendant stated in the allocation decision that the plaintiff must provide changes in this situation.
1.2.
Following a signal from the Intelligence Office, the defendant started an investigation in November 2020 into the legality of the claimant's social assistance benefit.The defendant has derived from Suwinet that the plaintiff's brother was written out of his education on 15 May 2020 and that he has not registered for another course since then.The defendant has asked the plaintiff several times to provide information about this situation.The plaintiff responded by e-mails of 29 November 2020, 16 December 2020 and 13 January 2021 to the questions and various documents asked by the defendant.Subsequently, the primary decisions 1 and 2 were taken.
1.3.
On April 23, 2021, the defendant received a message from the Education Executive Agency (DUO), which shows that the plaintiff's brother was entitled to student finance until 1 June 2020.Subsequently, the primary decision 3 was taken, with the primary decision 2 being replaced.
The contested decision2. The contested decision, in which the primary decisions 1 and 3 - under the opinion of the advice of the Objections Committee of 10 August 2021 - are maintained, entails the following.The resident brother of the plaintiff has to be regarded as a cost -retard co -resident from 1 June 2020, because from that date he no longer follows training and no longer claims student finance.By not making this a report to the defendant, the plaintiff has violated the obligation to provide information resting on her.As a result, the plaintiff has received too much assistance for the period from 1 June 2020 to 31 December 2020.The defendant is obliged to revise the right to the plaintiff's assistance over this period and to reclaim the assistance paid too much over this period (being an amount of € 2,116.14) of the plaintiff.In addition, the defendant was obliged to change the standard of the claimant's social assistance benefit to the cost sharing standard for a double -person household from 1 January 2021.
Plaintry position
3. The plaintiff cannot unite with the contested decision and leads the following.Plaintiff takes the position in the first place that the defendant did not determine that her brother was still living at the benefit address.Plaintiff states that although her brother was registered at her address, there was not always there.The fact that the plaintiff has indicated by e-mail that he does live with her must be seen in the light of circumstances: Plaintiff does not speak the language well and it was not clear to her what exactly was understood by "living".If she had known that it was understood that he was staying with her several days a week, she would have given a different answer.In the second place, the plaintiff takes the position that she did not know that her brother no longer met the exception to the cost sharing standard for students.After all, her brother would start the next academic year with a further education.The plaintiff did not know at the time that that training did not continue because her brother did not register in time.Thirdly, the claimant states that the defendant should have taken into account her personal circumstances.She has submitted medical documents to substantiate this.In addition, her brother did not have income in the period of interest and was struggling with a drug addiction.These circumstances should have led to either not applying the cost sharing standard or to refrain from recovery for urgent reasons.Finally, the plaintiff has argued that the defendant should have granted a costs allowance to the defendant to her, due to the replacement of the primary decision 2 by the primary decision 3.
Legal framework
4. Pursuant to Article 17, first paragraph, of the PW, the interested party will notify the Commission on request or immediately on his own initiative of all the facts and circumstances that must reasonably be clear to him that they can influence his labor integration or theRight to assistance.
Article 19a, first paragraph, of the PW stipulates, insofar as it is important for this ruling, that a costly co -resident is understood to mean the person of 21 years or older who has his main residence in the same home as the stakeholder and is not a personThis education follows for which entitlement to student finance as referred to in Article 3.1, first or second paragraph, of the Student Finance Act 2000 may exist and at any time during that education can be eligible for that student finance in view of his age.
Article 22a, first paragraph, of the PW states how the social assistance standard is determined for a person entitled to social assistance with one or more costing roommates.
Assessment of the court
5. The period to be assessed runs from 1 June 2020 (the date with effect from which the right to assistance) until January 19, 2021 (the date of the primary decision 1).
6. A decision to revise and recovery of social assistance is a taxing decision.The same applies to a decision to change the social assistance standard for a single person to the cost sharing standard.In the event of a taxing decision, it is up to the administrative body to gain the necessary knowledge about the relevant facts and circumstances and rest the burden of proof on the administrative body.For this case, this means that the defendant is to demonstrate that the plaintiff's brother in the period to be assessed should be regarded as a costly resident of the plaintiff, so that the cost sharing standard applies over that period, and that the plaintiff of this is in theperiod from 1 June 2020 to 31 December 2020 did not report the defendant, so that it has violated its obligation to provide information for that period.
7.1.In order to be able to identify a person as a costing co -resident of the social assistance recipient, that person must have his main residence in the same home as the social assistance recipient.According to settled case law of the Central Appeals Board (the Council), for example the ruling of 16 November 2021 (ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2021: 2832), the main residence of a person concerned is where the center of gravity of his or her personal life liesis located.This must be determined on the basis of concrete facts and circumstances.In addition, there is no decisive significance to the registration in the basic registration of persons (cf. the ruling of the council of 6 October 2020, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2020: 2438).
7.2.
From the contested decision and the explanation of the defendant at the hearing, the court concludes that the defendant had his position in the contested decision that the plaintiff's brother had his main residence at the plaintiff's address to be assessed, based on the fact that the brotherVan Plaintiff in the Basic Registration of Persons (BRP) was registered at the claimant's address in combination with the claimant's communication in her e-mail of 13 January 2021 that her brother lives with her.
7.3.
It is not in dispute that the plaintiff's brother in the period to be assessed in the basic registration of persons was registered at the claimant's address.From the under 7.1.Cited case law, however, it follows that this fact does not in itself justify the conclusion that the plaintiff's brother actually had his main residence at the claimant's address during the period to be assessed.The actual situation is important for this.For example, this can come to light through a home visit.
7.4.
On December 21, 2020, the defendant employees made an unannounced home visit to the claimant's home.The following report, which is part of the termination report in the ROT 21/4612 case and has been added to the file of this professional case with the permission of the parties, the following is included.
“"
In the house, in the opinion of rapporteur, there is little men's clothing, no men's socks, no men's underwear, no men's shoes and no sleeping place for her brother.This means that there are serious doubts about her brother's stay in the home […].
"
The court concludes from this that no (or few) concrete facts and circumstances were revealed during the home visit that indicate that the plaintiff's brother actually had his main residence in the claimant's home.
7.5.
By e-mail of January 12, 2021, an employee of the defendant asked the claimant the following questions: “
Does your brother live with you?Or does he live somewhere else?If he does not live with you, what date does your brother do not live with you?
"The plaintiff answered the following to these questions to e-mail of January 13, 2021:"
I can confirm he lives with me.
"
7.6.
In the opinion of the court, this answer of the plaintiff, in combination with the BRP registration of the plaintiff's brother, offers no adequate basis for the defendants that the brother of the plaintiff is the center of gravity of his personal life, and thus his main residence, duringthe (entire) period to be assessed at the claimant's address.In the first place, the court considers that this answer from the plaintiff does not find any support in the report of the home visit and even seems to be contradicted by the actual findings that were made on the occasion of the home visit (see consideration 7.4.).In the second place, the court considers that the defendant has not meant it or has meant the plaintiff by this answer that her brother has his main residence in her home.In the opinion of the court, it was in this case the defendant to check - for example by the claimant (with an interpreter) - what exactly the plaintiff meant by her answer, not just because of the results of the home visit andThe resulting serious doubts that the brother had his main residence in the plaintiff's home, but also because the plaintiff is not powerful for the Dutch language (in which the question was asked) and the concept of 'living' is susceptible to an explanation and that explanationAlso per culture can also vary.
7.7.The above leads to the conclusion that the defendant has not made it plausible that the brother of the plaintiff in the (entire) period had his main residence at the plaintiff's address and, therefore, not that the brother should be in the period to be assessedclassified as a costly co -resident of the plaintiff, so that the cost sharing standard had to be applied to the claimant's social assistance benefit.This means that the defendant has not made it plausible that the plaintiff has violated her obligation to provide information for the period from 1 June 2020 to 31 December 2020, by not reporting that she had a costly co -resident in the person of her brother during that period.The contested decision is therefore not based on a careful preparation or a sound reasons.
8. On the grounds for appeal that the defendant wrongly did not reimburse the costs incurred by the claimant in objection, the court considers as follows.In the contested decision, the defendant did not explicitly comment on the claimant's requests for reimbursement of the costs incurred in the objection phase.Insofar as it should be deduced from this that the requests for proceedings were rejected for the reason that the objections have been declared unfounded, the court considers that this rejection does not show a careful preparation and neither of proper reasons.The replacement of the primary decision 2 by the primary decision 3 (after the plaintiff had objected against the primary decision 2) in this case should be aligned in this case for the application of Section 7:15 (2) of the Awb with withdrawals(See for example the ruling of the Council of 22 January 2019, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2019: 430).The defendant did not recognize this in the contested decision, and the defendant did not recognize that if he wants to reject the requests for costs, he will have to state why the cancellation is not the result of an unlawfulness to be due to him.Such a reasons was not given in the contested decision.In that respect, this professional ground also succeeds.
Conclusion
9. The appeal is well founded in view of the above.The court will annul the contested decision for violation of Articles 3: 2 and 7:12 of the Awb.In view of this and on what was considered below with regard to the method of dispute resolution (namely: "Assignment of the new decision"), the court leaves what the plaintiff has put forward against the contested decision.
10. The court sees no possibility of maintaining the legal consequences of the contested decision, since the defendant has not restored the aforementioned defects in the contested decision in the professional phase.The court sees no reason to provide for the case himself, because it is up to the defendant to choose whether he wants to revoke the primary decisions 1 and 3 or would like to conduct further investigation into the application of the cost sharing standard in the period to be assessed and, in case he chooses the latter and on that basis he would come to the conclusion that the cost sharing standard must be applied, to properly motivate this in a decision.In addition, the court is of the opinion that in this case it is primarily up to the defendant to express the question of whether the plaintiff, in view of what has been considered under 8., a reimbursement of the costs incurred in the objection phase should be granted.Furthermore, the court sees no reason to apply an administrative loop, because, in view of the nature of the defects, the way in which it must be restored and the nature and form of a possible follow -up procedure for a new unfavorable decision for the plaintiff, notIt can be seen that the plaintiff gets a definitive answer in her case rather than if the defendant is instructed to take a new decision on the objections, within a period of six weeks of the day of sending this ruling.The court will therefore instruct the defendant, taking into account this decision (more specific considerations 6. up to and including 8. As well as the second and third sentence of this consideration), to take a new decision on the objections within the aforementioned period.
Proceedings
11. Because the appeal is well -founded, the court sees reason to order the defendant in the costs of proceedings appealed by the claimant.On the basis of the Decree on the Legal Aid Decree, the court sets these costs at € 1,518 (1 point for submitting an appeal and 1 point before the appearance at the hearing with a value per point of €759 and weighting factor 1).
12. No court fees are levied from the plaintiff, so that the defendant's compensation for court fees are not an issue.
Decision
The court:
- explains the appeal;
- annules the contested decision;- contributes to the defendant within six weeks of the day of sending this decision to take a new decision on the objections with due observance of this decision;
- orders the defendant to pay the plaintiff's costs of the claim to an amount of € 1,518.
This statement was made by F.A.Groeneveld, judge, in the presence of C.I.Kieviet, clerk.The decision was made in public on April 15, 2022.
clerk
right
A copy of this ruling has been sent to the parties on:
Remedial agent
An appeal can be lodged against this decision within six weeks of the day of shipment thereof.