ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2020: 6639
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2020: 6639
Instance
Court of Noord-Holland
Date of judgment
04-09-2020
Date of publication
11-09-2020
Case
Haa 20/2168
Jurisdiction
Administrative procedural law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
ENT No grounds profession
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Noord-Holland
Seat Haarlem
Administrative law
Case number: Haa 20/2168
ruling of the single Chamber of 4 September 2020 in the case between
[plaintiff], in [place of residence], plaintiff
authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri,
and
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of the municipality of Haarlemmermeer
, the defendant.
Process
The plaintiff lodged an appeal by letter of 2 April 2020 against the decision on the defendant's objection of 25 February 2020 with characteristic [#].
Consideration
1. On the basis of Article 8:54 of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb), the court makes a decision without a hearing.
2. On the basis of Article 6: 5, first paragraph, opening words and under d, of the Awb, someone who loses an appeal must state the grounds of the profession in the appeal.That means: saying which specific points he or she does not agree with the contested decision.If that does not happen, the court can declare the appeal on the basis of Article 6: 6 of the Awb inadmissible after a recovery option.
3. The plaintiff has not stated any appeal grounds in the appeal.The court requested the plaintiff by registered letter of 21 April 2020 to restore this absence within four weeks.Further research in the PostNL Track & Trace system has shown that this letter was delivered on April 22, 2020 and that was signed for receipt.Plaintiff did not respond.
4. The claimant has given no reason for this absenteeism.So there has been no apology for this absenteeism.
5. The appeal is therefore apparently inadmissible.
6. There is no reason for an order for costs.
Decision
The court declares the appeal inadmissible.
This statement was made by W.B.Klaus, judge, in the presence of N. Joacim, clerk.This statement is made on
As a result of measures surrounding the coronavirus, this ruling has not been pronounced on a public judgment session.As soon as the public pronouncing is possible again, this judgment is still pronounced in public if necessary.
clerk
Copy sent to the parties on:
Remedial agent
This court can be made against this judgment within six weeks of the day of shipment.The submitter of the opposition may ask to be given the opportunity to be heard about the opposition.The operation of this judgment is suspended until the period for making opposition has expired or, if object is made, that opposition has been decided.