ECLI: NL: GHSHE: 2021: 774
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: GHSHE: 2021: 774
Instance
Court of Justice 's-Hertogenbosch
Date of judgment
18-03-2021
Date of publication
19-03-2021
Case
200.270.601_01
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
Care scheme
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Justice 's-Hertogenbosch
Family and juvenile law team
Quote: March 18, 2021
Case number: 200.270.601/01
Case number first instance: C/02/362261 FA RK 19-4257
In the case on appeal of:
[the mother]
,, "
residing in [residence],
The applicant,
hereinafter referred to as: the mother,
lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri,
in return for
[the father]
,, "
residing in [residence],
defendant,
hereinafter referred to as: the father,
lawyer: A.M.J.van der Weide.
This case is about
[minor]
, born on [date of birth] 2010 in [birthplace].
In its capacity as described in Article 810 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the procedure is known: the Child Protection Board,
Southwest Netherlands region, location [location],
hereinafter referred to as: the council.
1
The proceedings at first instance
Before the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the Zeeland-West-Brabant District Court, Breda session of 20 November 2019.
2
The appeals on appeal
2.1.
By appeal with productions, received at the registry on December 11, 2019, the mother requested the aforementioned decision - to the Court understand - to be partially annulled, and to determine again, to determine again, enforceable in stock, that:
- the mother to be in [place of residence father] at the latest at 9 p.m. together with the child or determine that the father has to get the child out of school every week on Friday;
- the vacation days between parties are divided, whereby the child stays with her in the first half of the vacation in the even years and the first half of the holiday with the father stays with the father;
- The child must be brought to Arabic lesson in [hometown of mother] during the weekend.
2.2.
In the event of a defense with productions, received at the registry on 27 February 2020, the father asked the court to reject the mother's profession and to ratify the contested decision.
2.3.
The oral treatment took place on October 1, 2020.
Were heard on that occasion:
-
the mother, assisted by Hashem Jawaheri;
-
mr. Van der Weide, on behalf of the father.
2.3.1.
The father, although properly called for this, did not appear in oral treatment.On behalf of the Council, not a representative of oral treatment was published with a message of the impediment dated 14 August 2020.
2.4.
The Court of Appeal has also taken note of the content of:
-
the (partial) first instance process file, received at the registry of the Court of Appeal dated 2 January 2020;
-
further documents concerning the treatment at first instance, received at the registry of the Court of Appeal dated 7 January 2020;
-
The draft of the settlement agreement dated 28 March 2017, received at the Registry of the Court on 30 September 2020.
2.5.
After the oral hearing, a letter from the father of the father of 13 October 2020 and the response from the mother's lawyer of the mother of 16 October 2020 were received with the permission of the Court.
2.6.
Also, at the request of the Court of Appeal, the mother's lawyer arrived:
-
the V8 form of January 14, 2021;
-
The settlement agreement signed by the parties of 28 March 2017
(as an appendix to the V6 form of January 19, 2021);
-The summary proceedings judgment of 20 November 2019 with the characteristic C/02/363763/KG ZA 19-593 (as an appendix to the V6 form of 4 November 2020).
2.7.
After the oral hearing, the Court invited the minor [minor] for a child conversation.At her request, this took place via a video base connection
January 12, 2021. A report of this conversation was sent to both the father and the mother.
2.8.
The Court subsequently took note of:
-
the email message of the mother's lawyer dated January 25, 2021;
-
the V6 form of 2 February 2021 of the father's lawyer;
-
The V6 form of 3 February 2021 of the mother's lawyer.
3
The assessment
3.1.
The international nature of the case requires an assessment of the jurisdiction of the Dutch court.After having investigated this officially, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the Dutch court has jurisdiction in this case.
3.2.
Parties have been married.
From this marriage was born:
- [minor] (hereinafter: [minor]), on [date of birth] in [birthplace].
The parties jointly exercise parental authority over [minor].
[minor] has the main residence with the mother.
3.3.By decision of 8 October 2012, the Court of Breda, insofar as now relevant, has determined that the father and [minor] are entitled to deal with each other in accordance with the regulation laid down in that decision.
Afterwards, the parties also conducted various procedures about the contact scheme.
3.4.
By decision of 7 June 2017, the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant, seat of Breda, amended the decision of 8 October 2012 and determined that the mutual regulations laid down by the parties in the settlement agreement, of which a copy certified by the clerk to the decisionis attached, taken over and repeated.
3.5.
With the disposal - declared decision - declared decision, the court has
the decision of 7 June 2017 and the attached settlement agreement amended and determined that the father and [minor], in the context of the distribution of care and upbringing tasks, are entitled to have contact with each other:
- every week from Friday afternoon from school until Sunday 5 p.m., where the mother [minor] brings to the father on Friday and brings the father [minor] back to the mother on Sunday, with due observance of what has been included in legal consideration 4.5.of that decision;
- During the summer holidays for seven days when [minor] stays in Morocco.If none of the parties goes to Morocco, the weekend regulation continues during the summer holidays and [minor] can stay with the father in the Netherlands for one week.
The court rejected the mother's requests and the other requests from the father.
3.6.
By judgment of 14 February 2020, the preliminary relief judge of the Zeeland-West-Brabant court, session Breda, declared the mother inadmissible in her claim that-in connection with her changed medical situation-the father [minor] should pick up on Friday atThe mother and on Sunday must return to the mother.
For the sake of completeness, the preliminary relief judge points out that it is on the mother's way to find those solutions that lie within its sphere of influence and responsibility if the mother is in the inability to implement the contact scheme.It is the task of the mother to find a solution and to have the contact scheme between the father and [minor] pass.
3.7.
The mother cannot unite with part of this decision and she appealed.
3.8.1.
The mother leads the following in her appeal - in short.
It is not feasible for the mother in connection with her work and the care of her other three children to bring [minor] to the father in [place of residence of father] on Friday afternoon immediately after school.This is practically not feasible for her.She works on that day.It is not possible for her to work fewer hours due to its obligations in the context of the current debt restructuring process (WNSP).
The fact that she has to take all children into the car when she brings [minor] to the father, causes many tensions within the family and makes the drive even more difficult for the mother.Moreover, on Friday afternoon she suffers a lot from traffic on the way to [residence father].In view of the mother's medical complaints, the car ride is physically a strant tax for her.The mother is struggling with both physical complaints and mental disorders because she is aggressively treated by the father in the past.
The mother emphasizes that not making a decision about the distribution of the vacation days by the court is not in the interest of [minor].This also applies to rejecting the mother's request to take [minor], during the weekend she is with the father, to Arabic lesson in [hometown of mother].
3.8.2.
The mother has added the following to this in oral treatment.
The mother changes her request in the sense that she is requesting the Court to adjust the regulation concerning the achievement and bringing of [minor] in such a way that the father picks up [minor] from school on Friday and the mother picks her up from the father on Sunday.The mother works 38 hours a week and she cannot work for less hours on Friday.The care for her other three children plays and the fact that she is highly pregnant with her fifth child also a major role.The father is more flexible in his time because he doesn't work.Moreover, the mother has more options on Sunday to pick up [minor].She is also able to ask a family member on Sunday to do this on behalf of her or to arrange shelter for her other children.Because [minor] has already fallen too much backlog in following the Arab lessons, it no longer makes sense to follow them.The mother therefore draws her request on this point.With regard to the holiday scheme, she maintains her request to distribute the vacation days at Helfte.
3.9.
The father leads the following in his statement of defense, in short.
The father disputes that the mother works;Given her set medical condition, it cannot work in the short term.The father cannot be blamed for the fact that the mother has financial problems.
The mother's statement that she is unable to drive a car is canceled by herself now that she brings one of her other children to childcare in Belgium.The care and attention for the other children are not arguments why the father should drive back and forth on Friday and Sunday to get [minor] and bring them away.This also does not have feasible consequences for him.
By the preliminary relief judge, the (medical) circumstances of the mother were reassessed in the judgment of 14 February 2020 and also in these procedure, they were no reason to change the Breng and Getting agreements made.The father therefore maintains his views on that point.
The court has not seen the current holiday scheme.The father considers this decision rightly.The mother also did not indicate how she wanted to change the existing scheme.Although the father also finds the Arab lessons important for [minor], the mother's demands with regard to these lessons are not feasible.
3.9.1.
The father's lawyer has added to this on his behalf on an oral hearing on appeal that the father thinks the current access arrangement is going well.He wants it to stay as it is now.
At the moment the father still receives a social assistance benefit.He is looking for work in the taxi industry.With the father there is no unwillingness to consult with the mother, but he is tired of all the procedures.
The lawyer has promised to discuss the proposal of the mother's proposal with regard to changing and achieving [minor] with the father and will also take the distribution of the holidays with them.
3.10.
In the letter of 13 October 2020 of the father's lawyer, the Court reported that the parties have not succeeded in reaching agreement in mutual consultation.
With regard to the holiday scheme, the father requests the court to reject the mother's request to distribute the holidays at Helfte.The father wishes to stick to the current regulation that, according to the father, is satisfactory.According to him, the week that [minor] spends with the father in the summer is sufficient and fits with the possibilities of the father (in terms of time and in terms of finances).It is not financially possible for the father to have [minor] with him for more than one week.The father has not yet found work and has a social assistance benefit for a single person.He is therefore unable to take care of half a summer vacation for [minor].In addition, he notices that [minor] does not like to be away from her social environment for a longer period of time.
The father is willing to determine per holiday whether there are room and resources on his side to have [minor] with him for a longer period of time.He is open to consultation.
With regard to the delivery and collection control, the change proposed by the mother is practically not feasible for the father.The father hopes in the first place that he can get to work soon.He must be available on the Fridays.In addition, the father does not have a car himself and he cannot pay it at the moment.He lends his sister's family car once every fourteen days on Sunday to bring [minor] back to the mother.His sister often pays the gasoline costs for him because he has insufficient income.His sister works further on Friday and also has a family.This makes it impossible for the father to borrow the car on a day other than the Sunday of her.
The father therefore requests the court to reject this request from the mother.
Finally, the father requests the Court of Appeal to rule and thereby determine that the current regulation will apply for at least a period of three to four years, to prevent the mother from starting a new procedure in the short term.
3.11.
On behalf of the mother, her lawyer responded by letter of 16 October 2020.She states that the father does not take into account her circumstances that she has already discussed in her appeal and oral treatment at the Court.The mother also wants the procedures about the interaction concerning [minor] to stop.The father does not have to make any adjustments in his life at the moment to let the contact with [minor] take place.He only has to borrow a car from his sister.The mother therefore requests the Court, in the interest of [minor], to determine that the father [minor] should pick up at school on Friday and that the mother on Sunday (in person or a family member who is free on Sunday from work) [minor] picks up from the father.
3.12.
On January 12, 2021, the child conversation with [minor] took place via a video bubble connection.The report of this was sent to the parents
3.12.1.
With the email message from her lawyer dated 25 January 2021, the mother announced that he would agree to the report of the child conversation with [minor].
3.12.2.
In the V6 form of 2 February 2021, the father's lawyer gave a response to the report.The father is surprised that [minor] will be taken out of school half an hour earlier on Friday afternoon before the father's moment of dealing with the father.He believes that the mother [minor] simply has to bring to [place of residence father] after school as stipulated in the decision of the court.
The father acknowledges that he and [minor] cannot undertake much during the moments of access through his financial situation, among other things.However, he tries to make the best of it.[minor] wrongly sees his sister's car as his car.The father borrows this car because he brings her home with it or if they go to family once.
Changing the collection and delivery moments is impossible for the father because he cannot pay it to travel by public transport.
The father believes that getting and bringing is going well and should not be changed.The holidays must also be filled as it is so far.If [minor] wants to stay with the father for longer, that would also be possible, in consultation with the mother.However, this does not have to be recorded in a decision.
Finally, the father requested the Court of Appeal to be heard and requests a further oral hearing.He was unable to appear at the time of the earlier oral treatment due to illness.Now that the case has developed differently and [minor] has been called up for a child conversation, the father wishes to get another chance to raise his vision.Moreover, there have been new circumstances on the part of the mother for some time.The father has learned that she no longer works and lives with her partner.
3.12.3.
The mother's lawyer responded to this response to the V6 form of 3 February 2021.The mother argues that the father wrongly used the Court's request to respond to the report of the child conversation to argue again for his views and also to make a request for an oral hearing.
The mother points out that the father's lawyer indicated that the oral treatment of the Court has indicated that the father had finished litigation and was tired of always attending the sessions.According to her, it appears that the father consciously chose not to be present at the time.In addition, the father wrongly states that he has new information.It appears that these points are the old points that the father always repeats in every procedure and during every session;Namely that the mother does not work and has a partner.However, he is aware that the woman recently gave birth to her fifth child and with maternity leave.In addition, the mother has no partner.The mother therefore requests the Court of Appeal to reject the father's request to reject oral treatment.
It is also clear to the mother that the father can always have a car.
Furthermore, the mother emphasizes that she is not financially wide and, moreover, as a single mother takes care of five children.Nevertheless, she ensures that she undertakes all kinds of activities together with [minor].The father's statement that he has no money for therefore does not apply.The mother requests the Court (in addition to her other requests on appeal) to take into account future developments with regard to [minor].She will go to high school in a year and as a result it may happen that she will not be out until 4 p.m.The father must therefore take into account the school hours of [minor].From the perspective of [minor], it is therefore important that the father [minor] immediately picks up school on the Fridays on which handling must take place, even when she goes to high school.
3.13.
The court considers as follows.
Request from the father for a new oral treatment
3.14.
The Court of Appeal rejects the father's request for a new oral treatment because there is no need for this now that the father has been sufficiently given the opportunity to present his views.
During the oral hearing, the father's lawyer stated that the father was not feeling well and therefore had not appeared.His lawyer subsequently expressed his views on his behalf and, after the oral treatment, was still able - after consultation with the father - to respond in writing to the Haal and Brengregeling and the interpretation of the holiday scheme.
That, after the oral treatment, a child conversation with [minor] has taken place does not change this.The father was also able to respond in writing to this.
Furthermore, the new circumstances he sets on the part of the mother were not substantiated by him and disputed by the mother.The Court therefore sees no reason for a new oral treatment.In view of the many years of struggle that the parents have with regard to the (implementation of the) contact scheme, the Court of Appeal considers it necessary in the interest of [minor] that there is clarity about the contact scheme and will therefore decide.
Contact regulation
3.15.
Pursuant to Article 1: 253a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), disputes regarding the joint exercise of parental authority can be submitted to the court.
In the case of a dispute regarding the distribution of care and upbringing tasks, the court, in view of Article 1: 377e of the Dutch Civil Code, in conjunction with Article 1: 253a paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code, an earlier decision in this regard or a care scheme affected by the parents canChange on the ground that the circumstances have been changed afterwards.
The judge makes such a decision if he is desirable in the child's interest.
3.15.1.
There is no dispute between the parties that there is a change in circumstances.The mother can therefore be received in her request.
3.15.2.
In oral treatment on appeal, the mother withdrew her request with regard to the bringing of [minor] to Arabic lesson during the weekend she is with the father.This request therefore no longer needs further treatment.
3.15.3.
The mother and the father have been conducting proceedings for years about the delivery and collection of [minor] to the father and back to the mother.The parents persist in their views and also the attempt in the present procedure to arrive at a mutual arrangement did not help.
The Court of Appeal finds that no new facts or circumstances have been stated in the present proceedings that make a change in the regulation necessary in the interest of [minor].The Court of Appeal understands that the current contact scheme - despite the problems set by the mother - is going well, which is also indicated by [minor] in the child's conversation.She thinks traveling up and down is going well.
In view of this, the Court considers it in the interest of [minor] that the current regulation is continued.The Court of Appeal will therefore reject the mother's request to change the delivery and collection control.At the request of the father to determine that the regulation will apply for a number of years, the Court of Appeal cannot - apart from whether this request was made in time - will not make a decision, since this concerns a future situation in terms of facts and circumstances of all those atThis contact scheme is involved, which the Court cannot yet take into account.
3.15.4.The documents submitted and the oral treatment at the Court showed that [minor] - in accordance with the current regulation - will stay with the father for one week during the summer vacation.The mother wishes an extension of the holiday scheme, because [minor] would like to spend more time with the father.The father has indicated that a structural expansion of the holiday scheme is not financially feasible for him.The Court of Appeal considers everything, partly in view of the course of events in recent years, to maintain the current regulation with regard to the summer holidays.In addition, the Court of Appeal takes into account that [minor], during the child conversation, has indicated that the current scheme is going well and she no longer wants to stay with the father during the holidays.She has her friends with the mother and there is more to do there than at the father's home.In view of this, the Court will also reject the mother's request on this point.
3.16.
Pursuant to the foregoing, the Court of Appeal will ratify the decision that appeals, insofar as the Court's opinion is subject to.
4
The decision
The Council:
ratifies the decision given between the parties of the Zeeland-West-Brabant District Court, Breda's seat, of 20 November 2019, insofar as the Court's opinion is subject to the opinion of the Court;
Disives the lake or otherwise requested.
This decision was given by Mrs.E.A.M.Scheij, E.L.Schaafsma-Boversluis, M. Ossentjuk and was pronounced in public on March 18, 2021 in the presence of the clerk.