ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2022: 1150
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2022: 1150
Instance
Central Appeal Council
Date of judgment
25-05-2022
Date of publication
31-05-2022
Case
21/2764 Wmo15
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
The court ruled with correctness that the Municipal Executive was allowed to reject the appellant's application for a financial contribution to the costs of relocation.The research by the medical adviser has taken care of carefully.There is no reason to doubt the accuracy of his medical assessments.There is no violation of the principle of trust, the principle of equality, or the principle of equality or arms.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Central Appeal Council
Single room
Decision on the appeal against the decision of the Amsterdam District Court of 29 June 2021, 20/3847 (attacked judgment)
Parties:
[appellant] in [place of residence] (appellant)
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of Amsterdam (College)
Date of judgment: May 25, 2022
Process
On behalf of the appellant, A. Hashem Jawaheri, lawyer, appealed.
The Commission has submitted a statement of defense.
Parties have submitted further documents.
The investigation at the hearing took place on April 13, 2022. Mr. T.H.W. was published on behalf of the appellantVinke.The college has not been represented.
Consideration
1. The council is based on the following facts and circumstances
1.1.
Appellant, born in 1974, is familiar with physical and psychological
complaints.In connection with this, he submitted an application under the 2015 Social Support Act for a financial contribution to the costs of relocation.The appellant, together with his wife and three children, lives in a three -room rental apartment without a lift.
1.2.
By decision of 31 January 2020, maintained by decision on objection of 26 May 2020
(contested decision), the Commission has rejected the appellant's application.With reference to medical advice from the indication consultancy of 15 January 2020 and 20 May 2020, the Commission took the position that the appellant has no physical disorders that make climbing stairs insurmountable.In addition, the psychological complaints of the appellant are not a restriction in the normal use of the home, so there is no reason to move.
2. In the attacked decision, the court declared the appellant's appeal against the contested decision unfounded.
3. The appellant has turned on appeal against the attacked decision.In short, the appellant argued, referring to a statement from his psychiatrist of 1 March 2022, that his psychological complaints limit him in such a way in the normal use of the home that it is necessary to move.Furthermore, according to the appellant, it is not required that by providing a financial contribution to the costs of relocation, complaints are completely removed.The appellant has appealed to the principle of equality for this.The appellant also stated that the college acted in violation of the principle of trust and the principle of Equality of Arms.In view of this, the court should have appointed an expert.The appellant has requested that the Council still proceeds.
4. The council comes to the following assessment.
4.1.
The court ruled with correctness that the Municipal Executive was allowed to reject the appellant's application for a financial contribution to the costs of relocation.The following is considered for this.
4.2.
The research by the medical adviser has taken care of carefully.There is no reason to doubt the accuracy of his medical assessments.The information from the psychiatrist submitted by the appellant on appeal was known to the medical adviser, in view of the previously submitted letter from the psychiatrist of 3 April 2020 of the same effect.The medical adviser has involved this information in his assessment.According to the medical adviser, several stress factors play a role in the chronic psychological complaints of the appellant, including his housing.However, according to the medical adviser, stressors are always present and another home will not remove the other factors.Furthermore, according to the medical adviser, the children of the appellant are at the age of which they can understand that their father needs rest.Moreover, the children are predominantly to school during the day, so that the appellant at home prevails.In view of this, the Commission was able to take the position that there are no restrictions for the appellant in the normal use of his home, so there is no reason for a financial contribution to the costs of relocation.
4.3.The appellant's statement that the college has acted in violation of the principle of equality is not affected.The appellant has his view that in (almost) all cases in which there is a medical reason for a move, after a relocation of medical complaints, there will continue to exist, not based on concrete data.The appellant has therefore not made it plausible that there are, on the legally relevant aspects, equal cases.
4.4.
The court has correctly considered that there is no question of violation of the principle of trust.The appellant has not succeeded in substantiating and thereby making it plausible that the medical adviser has made a concrete and unambiguous oral or written commitment to have a further investigation carried out because he does not consider himself expert.
4.5.
The appellant's profession on the principle of Equality of Arms does not succeed either.Now that the appellant has had sufficient opportunity to submit medical documents himself, also made use of it and has not sown sufficient doubts about the course of the investigation and the substantive assessment by the medical adviser, the court has rightly abandoned the appointment ofAn independent expert.
4.6.
In view of the above, the Council has not seen any reason to appoint an expert.
4.7.
It follows from what was considered in 4.1 to 4.6 that the appeal does not succeed.The attacked judgment will be confirmed.
5. There is no reason for an order for costs.
DECISION
The Central Appeal Council confirms the attacked decision.
This statement was made by D.S. de Vries, in the presence of L.C.van Bentum as clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on 25 May 2022.
(signed) D.S. de Vries
(signed) L.C.Van Bentum