ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2021: 3123
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2021: 3123
Instance
Court of Noord-Holland
Date of judgment
21-04-2021
Date of publication
26-04-2021
Case
C/15/303039/HA SA 20-319
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
Ground shop
,, "
First instance - Multiple
Contents indication
Professional liability notary for the sale/delivery of the home.Rejection claims because no damage has been suffered.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Court of Noord-Holland
Trade, canton and insolvency
Seat Haarlem
Case number / Role number: C / 15/303039 / HA SA 20-319
Judgment of April 21, 2021 (in advance)
in the case of
[plaintiff]
,, "
residing in [residence],
Plaintiff,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
the private company with limited liability
Gopisingh van Os Notarissen B.V.
,, "
established in Hoofddorp,
defendant,
Lawyer mr. W. Knoester in Rotterdam.
The parties will hereinafter (I) be called "[plaintiff]" and (ii) "Gopisingh van Os" or "the notary".
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the interlocutory judgment of 11 November 2020 and the documents mentioned therein;
-
the oral treatment of 25 March 2021 and the pleading notes submitted by Jawaheri and mr. Knoester.
1.2.
Finally, a judgment was determined.
2
The facts
2.1.
On December 4, 2018, [A.] and [B.] (hereinafter: buyers) concluded a purchase agreement with [C.] (hereinafter: Seller) with regard to a home at the [address] (hereinafter: the purchase agreement).The purchase price was € 346,500.It concerned a model purchase agreement for an existing single -family home (version 2018) as determined by the NVM.Gopisingh van Os was involved in the transaction as a notary's office.[plaintiff] acted as a mortgage adviser of buyers.[plaintiff] is also a director of the GS Finance & Properties B.V.(hereinafter: GSFP).
2.2.
Buyers and seller have concluded the purchase agreement subject to financing, which reservation would initially expire on 28 December 2018 (and later on January 8, 2019).Buyers had to pay a bank guarantee or a deposit for that amount to the notary at the latest on 4 January 2019 for an amount of € 34,650.The intended delivery date of the house was 1 March 2019.
2.3.
After concluding the purchase agreement, [plaintiff] agreed with the seller on behalf of buyers that the deposit had to be paid by 15 January 2019 by 15 January 2019.When buyers had not deposited the deposit on that date, the seller sent a notice of default at the end of January 2019.
2.4.
On 1 February 2019, GSFP deposited the deposit on behalf of buyers on the bank account of the notary.After receiving this, the notary [plaintiff] reported that it was obliged to refund the funds - in the absence of receipt of a loan agreement between GSFP and buyers.This led to the notary, in accordance with the request of [plaintiff], returned the deposit to GSFP on 5 February 2019.
2.5.
Because the deposit was not yet paid at that time, the seller - also on 5 February 2019 - sent a second notice of default and claimed the contractual fine of 3 promille of the purchase price for every day that buyers would remain in default.Shortly thereafter, buyers transferred the deposit directly to the notary.
2.6.
Because buyers had not deposited the purchase price due on 1 March 2019 into the account of the notary, the seller sent a third notice of default and ordered buyers to meet their obligations at the latest on 8 March 2019.On 11 March 2019, [plaintiff] agreed with the seller on behalf of buyers to postpone the delivery date until 15 March 2019 at the latest.Among other things, the seller has set the condition that if the delivery would not take place on that date, the notary would be asked to pay the deposit (at the level of the contractual fine of a maximum of 10% of the purchase price) to the seller immediately.In addition, the seller has also claimed the fine of 3 Promille per day from the date of original delivery.
2.7.Also on 11 March 2019, [plaintiff] reported the notary that GSFP would finance the purchase and transfer the purchase price to the notary's account.On 12 March 2019, the notary [plaintiff] informed that in that case she should receive a copy of the loan agreement between GSFP and buyers.The same day, [plaintiff] sent a message to the notary in which he indicated that the funds were transferred by Gelz B.V.In addition, [plaintiff] wrote that he did not find the fine of 3 Promille justified.A day later, the notary [plaintiff] informed that in connection with the law to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism (hereinafter: Wwft), she had to receive information about (i) the loan between Gelz B.V.and buyers and (ii) who on behalf of Gelz B.V.was authorized to represent and that without that information could not be delivered.
2.8.
On March 14, 2019, Hendriks Fleuren Zuyd Notarissen reported to [plaintiff] and the notary that she received an amount of € 235,000 from Nieuwenhuis Holding B.V. on her third -party money account.(hereinafter: Nieuwenhuis).
2.9.
On March 15, 2019, GSFP transferred an amount of € 235,000 to the bank account of the notary.[Plaintiff] also sent an e-mail to the notary that day to the notary with a (single) loan agreement signed by GSFP (but not by buyers).He also wrote that buyers themselves would transfer an amount of € 90,000 to the notary account.The notary [plaintiff] informed the same day that she had to receive various documents in connection with the Wwft, such as the shareholders register and statutes of GSFP and a signed and legalized UBO and PEP statement.[plaintiff] then requested to return the funds, so that buyers could transfer the amount directly.The notary then indicated that even if buyers transferred the amount themselves, the requested information still had to be supplied.
2.10.
On March 18, 2019, notary's office Bakker & Neve Netwerk Notarissen, at the request of [plaintiff], sent the signed and legalized PEP and UBO statement to the notary, as well as a copy of the articles of association and the shareholders register of GSFP.As a result, the notary [plaintiff] still requested sending a legalized statement with Apostille from [D.] (the shareholder of GSFP) and documents for identification of [D.] and [plaintiff].The notary also received the amount of € 90,000 from buyers that day.The notary then asked buyers to fill in a document about the origin of the amount and signed.
2.11.
By e-mail of 26 March 2019, the notary reported to the buyers that the seller would proceed to dissolve the purchase agreement if there would be clarity not before 3 p.m. if and whether the transfer could continue.Because the aforementioned documents were not received by the notary, the delivery did not take place and the seller dissolved the purchase agreement on 28 March 2019.On 2 April 2019, the notary used the deposit at the Seller's request to pay the contractual fine of 10% to the seller.In addition, the notary (i) has returned the amount of € 235,000 to GSFP and (ii) the amount of € 90,000, minus the notary fees to buyers.
3
The dispute
3.1.
[plaintiff] claims, in summary and after changes to the requirement:
-
a statement that Gopisingh van Os, at least a notary subordinate to her, has not acted as befits a good notary, or that she has acted unlawfully;
-
a statement that Gopisingh van Os (therefore) is liable for the damage that [plaintiff] suffered as a result thereof;
-
To order Gopisingh van Os to compensate [plaintiff ]'s damage of € 57,210.36;and
-
To order Gopisingh van Os to pay the costs and follow -up costs, plus interest.
3.2.
According to [plaintiff], it consists of the following acts in the careless or the unlawful actions of the notary against [plaintiff]:
-
The notary has violated its ministry obligation by not passing the house at the [address] (in time), while the funds were available.There was no reason to assume that the transaction may have been related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism, because (i) the selling price of the home was in line with the market, (ii) all funds were made available and (iii) the financing of GSFPOnly to bridge the period until 25 March 2019, at what time Nieuwenhuis would provide a financing with mortgage rights to buyers.If she had had some doubt, the notary could have been sufficient to make a report to FIU-Nederland;
-
The notary has wrongly not responded to the request of [plaintiff] to refer the passing of the deed of delivery to another notary;
-The notary has wrongly refused the amount of € 235,000 (timely) to be returned to it so that buyers could transfer this amount directly, while the notary accepted a direct transfer at the deposit;
-
The notary wrongly paid the deposit as a fine to the seller, since [plaintiff] has made it known several times to dispute and still be in negotiation with the seller.The notary has acted partial.
As a result of this action, [plaintiff] causes damage, consisting of (i) the deposit of € 34,650, (ii) a paid committee for obtaining financing of Nieuwenhuis of € 20,000 and (iii) the costs of the notaryof € 2,560.36, which, according to [plaintiff], were paid unduly.In addition, [plaintiff] states that he has incurred travel expenses and that one of the buyers has come across a heart attack as a result of the notary's actions.
3.3.
The notary defends.In the first place, it argues that [plaintiff] has no interest in his claims because he has not suffered any damage.After all, not [plaintiff] but only buyers have become financially worse as a result of the dissolution of the purchase agreement.She also states that the claim for law has not acted (as a notary's office)
as befits a good notary
is not assignable and, incidentally, has acted carelessly or unlawfully towards [plaintiff]:
-
With regard to its ministry obligation, she argues on the basis of the Wwft to verify the origin of funds and to request the information she requested.The notary did not arrive at the assessment of whether or not to refuse the ministry, because the seller had already dissolved the purchase agreement before buyers had provided the requested information;
-
Pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 3 of the Notary Office Act (hereinafter: WNA), it is not permitted to refer work to another notary when the activities of a generally usual nature concern, such as in the present case;
-
Because the notary was known that the payment of € 235,000 was in fact from GSFP - and she must verify the origin thereof - the requested information about GSFP was also required for a direct transfer by buyers before the deed of delivery could be passed;
-
Pursuant to Article 11.5 sub a of the purchase agreement, the notary was obliged to pay the deposit as a fine to the seller, since the seller (repeated) has given notice of default, she had fallen into default and the seller had legally dissolved the purchase agreement extrajudicial.
Furthermore, the notary disputes that there is an attraction and that there is a causal link between the accused conduct and the damage made.With regard to the damage, the notary argues that [plaintiff] has insufficiently substantiated the committee costs of € 20,000 and disputes that the notary fees were paid unduly.Finally, the notary is defending that relativity is missing, now that the norm on which [plaintiff] invokes does not extend to protect his interests.
3.4.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, insofar as relevant.
4
The assessment
4.1.
[plaintiff] holds the notary liable for damage suffered as a result of not cooperating in the transfer of the house to buyers.It is stated that [plaintiff] was not a party to the purchase agreement, which was concluded between buyers and seller.The court therefore escapes on the basis of which [plaintiff] believes that he can make claims against the notary due to the termination of that purchase agreement.Apart from the fact that it has not been shown that the notary has acted carelessly against [plaintiff], the claims already encounter the fact that [plaintiff] has not suffered any damage.To this end, the court considers as follows.
4.2.
[plaintiff] shas to have suffered damage in the first place because the notary paid the deposit of € 34,650 after the termination of the purchase agreement as a fine to the seller.It is certain, however, that not [plaintiff], but buyers the deposit were and have paid.It cannot be seen here that [plaintiff] has suffered damage to the seller as a result of paying the deposit.[plaintiff] 's statement that he agreed with buyers that he would make the amount of the deposit available to buyers, as far as this would already be established - does not make it the foregoing, now that such an agreement does not make the notaryRegardert.In addition, the deposit was initially not transferred to the notary's account by [plaintiff] in private but by GSFP on behalf of buyers.After the notary returned this amount to GSFP, buyers then transferred the deposit directly to the notary.It also follows that any (eligible) damage on the part of [plaintiff] cannot be the case.The foregoing means that there is no room for the award of this part of the claim.
4.3.
Secondly, [plaintiff] claims to have suffered damage because a committee was paid for € 20,000 for the mortgage financing that a third party (Nieuwenhuis) would later provide to buyers.However, it is not clear that this committee owes and is paid.Now that the notary has disputed this, it had been on the road of [plaintiff] to substantiate his positions in this context, which he did not do.Also, [plaintiff] does not substantiate on the basis of which he owes the committee personally - and not buyers.Now that it has not been shown that [plaintiff] has suffered this damage, the claim for reimbursement thereof will also have to be rejected.
4.4.
Furthermore, [plaintiff] claims to have suffered damage as a result of the costs charged by the notary to buyers in the amount of € 2,560.36.Also for this claim it does not apply that he, but buyers, owe the notary fees.Moreover, it is certain that buyers (and not [plaintiff]) have paid these costs to the notary.After all, the notary has deducted its costs from the part of the purchase price that buyers were directly transferred to the notary, after which she returned the remainder to buyers.
4.5.
Finally, the travel costs set by [plaintiff] are not explained or substantiated at all and disputed by the notary, so that the court ignores this.Insofar as [plaintiff] is further based on his claims that one of the buyers has suffered (immaterial) damage due to a heart attack that happened to him as a result of the notary's actions, it also applies that this argument is not substantiated and that this is also alsoNo damage from [plaintiff].There is therefore no further assessment of this.
4.6.
Now that it has not been shown that [plaintiff] has suffered damage, he has no importance within the meaning of Section 3: 303 of the Dutch Civil Code in the statements for law claimed by him.These claims will therefore also be rejected.
4.7.
[plaintiff] will be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings as the unsuccessful party.The costs on the side of Gopisingh van Os are estimated at:
- Registry fee € 2,042.00
- Salary lawyer €
2,228.00
(2.0 points × rate € 1,114)
Total € 4,270.00
5
The decision
The court
5.1.
rejects the progress,
5.2.
orders [plaintiff] to pay the costs of the proceedings, on the side of Gopisingh van Os estimated to date at € 4,270,
5.3.
Insade [plaintiff] in the costs arising after this judgment, estimated at € 163 of the lawyer salary, on the condition that [plaintiff] did not comply with the judgment within fourteen days of the notification and subsequently served the decision, with an amount of € 85,
5.4.
declares this judgment enforceable with regard to the cost order.
This judgment was given by Mr. I.M.Hendriks, Th.S.Röell and H.A.POTT Hofstede and pronounced in public on April 21, 2021.
1
1
Type: 1617Coll: