ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 2759
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 2759
Instance
Court of Central Netherlands
Date of judgment
08-06-2023
Date of publication
03-07-2023
Case
Utr 23/786 and Utr 23/905
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
The research resources met the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity therefore not a question of an infringement of private life justified.The research provides sufficient basis for the position that claimants had a joint household
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Central Netherlands
Seat in Utrecht
Administrative law
Case numbers: Utr 23/786 and Utr 23/905
ruling of the single Chamber of 8 June 2023 in the case between
[plaintiff], plaintiff and
[plaintiff]
, plaintiff, together claimants,
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of the municipality of Huizen
(authorized representative: B. Hopman).
Introduction
1. Claimants received assistance for married couples from 23 September 2011.From 7 October 2011, they were registered in the Personal Registration (BRP) at the address [address 1] in [place of residence].Plaintiffs are separate on 31 May 2013. From 6 February 2015, the claimant is registered in the BRP at the address [address 2] in [place of residence].From 6 February 2015, the claimant and plaintiff will receive assistance to the standard of a single person.
1.1.
Following an anonymous report, an investigation was requested on 11 June 2021 at the Social Investigation Gooi & Vechtstreek (Social Investigation).
1.2.
The defendant no longer paid the benefit of claimants from July 6, 2021.With regard to the claimant, the defendant laid down the blocking of the benefit in a decision on 6 September 2022.Plaintiff objected to this decision on 8 September 2022.
1.3.
On 25 August 2022, the Social Investigation Department made up the report of Benefit Fraud (hereinafter: the report) on official promise.Following this report, the defendant with two separate decisions of 12 September 2022 decided that the plaintiff and the plaintiff will no longer receive assistance from 9 September 2022.Against these decisions, the claimants submitted two separate objections on September 13, 2022.
1.4.
With three separate decisions on the objection of 27 January 2023, the defendant declared the objections of the claimants against the decisions of 6 September 2022 and 12 September 2022 unfounded.Plaintiffs have appealed against this.
1.5.
The court dealt with the appeals on April 4, 2023 at the hearing.Participated in this: claimants, the authorized representative of the claimants and the representative of the defendant.
Assessment by the court
Court of court fees
1. The claimant stated that he does not have enough money to pay the court fees and that is why he has asked for an exemption from it.The court decides that the claimant has made it plausible that he does not have sufficient income or assets to pay the court fees.That is why the plaintiff does not have to pay a court fee for the profession.Plaintiff has paid the court fee.
The period to be assessed
2. The defendant has not limited the termination (read: withdrawal) of the assistance to a certain period.In such a case, the period that the administrative court must assess is the period from the date with effect of which the defendant has withdrawn the assistance up to and including the date of the withdrawal decision.In this case, the period to be assessed is the period from 9 September 2022 to 12 September 2022.
Defendant's decision -making
3. The defendant has based the findings laid down in the report of the Social Investigation Department on the withdrawal of social assistance.The defendant has taken the position that the claimants have not met the obligation to providedid not report the house at [address 2].
4. The decision to withdraw assistance is a decision -making decision for claimants.That is why the burden of proof is to make it plausible that the conditions for withdrawal have been met in principle on the defendant.
Is the plaintiff wrongly not heard in response to her objections?
5. The plaintiff argues that she was not properly invited to the hearing and that they should have been heard separately from the claimant.A simultaneous hearing is contrary to, among other things, the right to privacy.6. This professional ground does not succeed.The e-mail message of 20 September 2022 of W. Jore, secretary of the Objections Committee (the Commission) to the authorized representative of the claimants shows that the hearing is planned for November 23, 2022 and that that hearing relates to the objections of both the plaintiff andPlaintiff.It follows that the plaintiff has been properly invited.If the plaintiff would have preferred to be heard separately from the claimant, it would have been on her way to indicate this.The court has not shown that the plaintiff made such a request.Without further explanation, the court also does not follow that it is simultaneously contrary to the right to privacy.
At the hearing, the authorized representative of the claimants still argued that he reported by telephone that he could not be present on November 23, 2022, but that this unabitment was not taken into account so that the plaintiff was wrongly not heard for that reason either.The court states first of all that, on the basis of the file documents, it cannot check whether the claimants are the authorized representative of the Commission's secretary indeed informed of his unable to attend on November 23, 2022. Moreover, it would have been on the road of the plaintiff as soon as soonIt became clear that his impediment on November 23, 2022 was not taken into account - again in writing to request another session date.The documents do not show that he has made such a request.The report of the hearing shows that the claimant was present and that the authorized representative was observed by an office colleague Mr. T. Vinke.The chairman of the committee determined at the start of the hearing that the plaintiff is not present and that Mr Vinke does not have an authorization to be able to represent it.However, the chairman did not consider it appropriate to make the plaintiff appear at the town hall because she does not speak Dutch, the three objections to be treated are closely related and are also based on the same report of the social investigation.The report of the hearing does not show that Mr Vinke objected to this course of events at that time.It has also not been shown that the plaintiff was harmed by this course of events.The appeal land that the plaintiff was wrongly not heard therefore does not succeed.
Should the defendant use the findings from the social investigation investigation?
7. The claimants argue that the anonymous tip that claimants have not received a copy should not be a reason for the far -reaching investigation by the social investigation.The investigation has a serious infringement of their privacy.Unauthorized and disproportionately heavy investigation methods were used by secretly observing the plaintiff and the home at [address 1], following telephone use, entering the homes and consulting social media.That the entry of the houses was necessary is not evident and the way in which the home visit took place was limitless.The evidence obtained may therefore not be used for decision -making, according to claimants.
8. The court considers that the defendant is authorized on the basis of Article 53a of the PW to investigate the accuracy and completeness of the data provided and, if necessary, to other information that are necessary for the provision or continuation of assistance.This general investigation of research can always be exercised spontaneously with regard to all beneficiaries and for this, no prior and reasonable fact, signal, land or suspicion is required for this.The claims of claimants that the anonymous tip cannot be a reason for the investigation therefore cannot affect the authority to conduct investigation into the legality of the assistance provided to the claimants.
1
9. It is established that the research methods used such as the systematic observations and the entry of the houses are an infringement of the right to respect for the private lives of the claimants.The question is whether this infringement is in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR).10. The court finds that the infringement made by the social investigation in the private lives of the claimants was not disproportionately heavy in proportion to the purpose to be served.Nor can it be judged that at any time a less radical research agent was available to investigate the legality of the assistance provided to the claimants.Initially, the social investigator has conducted an administrative investigation in which the social assistance file was consulted, investigation was conducted in the BRP, Suwinet and in the registration registration of the Road Traffic Department (RDW).In addition, a financial investigation has been done.Furthermore, the social detective has requested the consumption data of the address [address 1].This showed a water consumption that, according to the Nibud standard, corresponds to the average use of a 4-person household.Internet research also took place (Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn), but no data relevant for the investigation were found.Subsequently, in the period between November 8, 2021 to December 15, 2021, at varying times 14 observations were made at the [address 1] from which it emerged that claimants car (a Renault Twingo) on all days of the week for [Address 1] is parked and someone drives in this car on Monday and Wednesday morning and park it early in the morning for [address 1].In view of the suspicion of the concealing of a joint household and the fact that the disadvantage amount of € 50,000 would be exceeded, the Social Detective then started a criminal investigation in consultation with the public prosecutor (OvJ) from 24 December 2021.In that context, the Social Investigation Department carried out systematic observations by order of the OvJ in the period from 10 February 2022 to 31 March 2022. Furthermore, on the basis of a claim on the basis of Article 126na and 126n of the Historical Telecommunications CodeVan claimant's telephone number requested from KPN.In addition, bank details have been demanded on the basis of a claim from the OVJ.On June 30, 2022, an order was issued by the OvJ for arrest outside the act of claimants.On July 6, 2022, the plaintiff took place by order of the OVJ arrest (outside the act) and the claimant was heard as a suspect.On July 6, 2022, a search of the houses at [address 2] and the [address 1] also took place, under the responsibility of the examining magistrate.Plaintiff was heard on July 7, 2022.
11. The court finds that the handling of this, step -by -step investigations in every phase of the investigation met the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity, so that the infringement of the right to respect for the private life of the plaintiffs was justified.
2
Viewing the claimant's data on social media meets the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity.In the context of administrative research, the defendant did research on the internet on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.These data consulted are publicly accessible.Consulting that data therefore already formed a limited infringement of the right to private life of the plaintiff.
3
Moreover, no relevant cases for the investigation were found.Subsequently, in the context of a criminal investigation with the permission of the Public Prosecution Service and/or the examining magistrate, the Social Investigation Department carried out the aforementioned investigations and there is no judicial opinion that the findings of the staff investigation have been obtained unlawfully.The report of the social investigation shows that the search of the home at [address 2] and the home at [address 1] took place under the responsibility of and in the presence of the examining commissioner.This shows to a sufficient extent that a legally valid decision to search the houses was available.The court does not follow the mere statement that boundaries have been crossed.Furthermore, it has also not been shown that the social investigation has obtained the evidence unlawfully.Contrary to the claimants, if the defendant laid down the research results in the reporting of the Social Investigation Department on decision -making.The professional ground does not succeed.
Is there a joint household?
12. Based on the law, it is assumed that people have a joint household if they have their main residence at the same address and have (a) child (ren) together or (a) child (ren) of one are recognized bythe other.
4
13. Since it has been established that the relationship between claimants were born, to answer the question of whether during the period to be assessed here there was a joint household decisive whether the claimants had their main residence in the same home during that period.14. A person's main residence is where the center of gravity of his personal life is.This must be determined per situation on the basis of concrete facts and circumstances.For example, it must be considered where someone (usually) sleeps, where he or she does shopping, where the mail is received and where someone invites his or her friends.If it is likely that people at the same address have their main residence, it does not matter that they are registered at different addresses.
5
15. The court finds that the investigation findings provide a sufficient basis for the conclusion that the claimants had their main residence at the address [address 1] during the period to be assessed.To this end, the court considers the following.
16. The report of the Social Investigation Department states that when searching the house at the address [address 1] in a bedroom (in the report Bedroom 1) with a double bed a rack with men's coats, a wardrobe with men's clothing and a dresserwas found with male care products.Next to the bed in this bedroom was a bedside table with a debit card of ING in the name of the claimant.In another bedroom (in the report Bedroom 3 report), a pharmacy bag was found in a dresser with medicines in the name of the claimant to be kept until the end of 2023 and a stack of (recent) administration in the name of the claimant.In the wardrobe in that room a black men's bag was also found with administration in the name of the claimant.Furthermore, men's clothing was found in that bedroom (about 32 men's shirts size M, 3 jogging pants men, 9 pants men, 18 vests/shirts long sleeves, 8 boxers, 3 men's coats size M (40), 9 shirts, 4 T-shirts, 11 polo shirts, 15 shorts, 4 long pants, men's belt).There was also a safe in this bedroom in which, among other things, the plaintiffs Dutch passport, his Iranian passport and a foreign proof of identity were.The dresser in the living room (recent) administration of the plaintiff was also found.In addition to mail in the name of the name of the name of the address [address 2], mail in the name of the claimant was also found at the address [address 1], such as Post van Digitalsonline of 19 October 2020 and the KPN of 31 March 2022. Furthermore, the two wereLarge American refrigerators in the utility room completely full of food and drinks and drugs in the name of the claimant were found in one of the refrigerators.In the hall there was a black men's pace with an old NS subscription and a European Health Insurance Card both in the name of the claimant.Furthermore, a package from Dorit B.V.Almere in the name of the claimant at the address [address 1] with an invoice in it of 5 May 2022 and a call from the population register in the name of the claimant (address [address 2]).There were several women's shoes, men's pool slippers and children's slippers in the meter cupboard and there was a shoe rack next to the front door with several pairs of men's sneakers and bath slippers.
17. Furthermore, the findings of the social investigation show that no goods or papers of the plaintiff were found during the search in the home at [address 2].Two women were present at that address, [A] ([A]) and [B] ([B]).During the search, administration was found in the name of [C] ([C]) of which [A] stated that he is her son.Several items of clothing and shoes were also found that, according to [A], are owned by her son.The official report of findings shows that [A] has further stated that she is staying in the house for about eight weeks, that her son rents the house and that the male care products in the bathroom are his.[B] states that she is a friend of [C] and that she occasionally stays there, she does not know who the landlord is of the home and has never seen the landlord.
18. It follows from the foregoing that no goods or papers at the address at [address 2] (clothing, administration, medicines, bank cards, identification involvementthe claimant were found.While (a lot of) administration, medicines, bank cards and passports of the plaintiff were at the address [address 1] and (a lot of) men's clothing was also found there.During the interrogation on July 6, 2022, the plaintiff stated that his medicines are everywhere, but the study shows that his medicines were not found in the home at [address 2] but in (including the refrigerator of) the house onthe [address 1].Furthermore, during the interrogation, the plaintiff stated that most clothing is in his apartment at the [address 2] and that some jackets and clothing that he does not use in the attic are at [address 1].This statement is also inconsistent with the research findings.After all, when searching the house at [address 2], no clothing items from the plaintiff were found and men's clothing was found in several places in the house at [address 1], but not as the plaintiff states in the attic.Plaintiffs have not made the statement that the clothing is at [address 1] of their son and that there is also clothing from the claimant in his daughter's home.Furthermore, the plaintiff stated during the interrogation that his administration is at his home at the [address 2] and that some letters lie with his ex so that his son can translate it.Also these statements are not strips with the research findings as laid down in the report of the Social Investigation.After all, no administration of the plaintiff was found at the [address 2] and at the [address 1] lay in several places in the post/administration in the name of the claimant.
19. Plaintiffs have stated that the plaintiff is often at [address 1] because claimants have their daughter - who has problems with her ex - and support their grandson and are always ready for them.Even if their own son has problems, they are ready for him together.To substantiate this, the claimants submitted a statement of 27 March 2023 of [D] and a statement of 2 April 2023 of [E].
20. The court finds that no matter how tangible this intention of claimants is, according to settled case law in answering the question whether there is a joint household in a certain case the motives of those involved are not relevant.
6
In view of this, the statement that the claimant was staying at the address [address 1] because of the care for his daughter, son and grandson [address 1] does not need any further discussion.
21. In view of what has been considered under 16 to 20, the research findings mentioned there offer a sufficient basis for the position that the claimants both had their main residence at the address [address 1] in the period to be assessed.It follows that plaintiffs conducted a joint household with each other during that period.The grounds of appeal that relate to the evidence of the other research findings therefore do not require a discussion.The court therefore sees no reason to reopen the investigation pending the reaction of the social investigation on the claimant's request to receive a copy of the (anonymous) statements from the local residents.
22. Plaintiffs have violated the obligation to provide information by not reporting from the joint household to the defendant.This means that the defendant has rightly decided on that ground to withdraw the assistance.Because this ground can carry that decision independently, the court will not assess the defendants in a subsidiary position as given under 3..
Conclusion and consequences
23. The professions are unfounded.That means that the claimants are not right.The claimants therefore do not receive reimbursement of their costs of the proceedings.
Decision
The court declares the professions unfounded.
This statement was made by E.E.M.van Abbe, judge, in the presence of
N.R.Hoogenberk, clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on 8 June 2023.
clerk
right
A copy of this ruling has been sent to the parties on:
Information about appeal
A party that does not agree with this decision can send a higher appeal to the Central Council of Appeal in which it is explained why this party does not agree with this decision.The appeal must be submitted within six weeks of the day on which this ruling was sent.If the applicant cannot await the handling of the appeal, because the case has urgent, the submission of the preliminary relief proceedings may ask the Central Appeals Appeal to make a provisional provision (a temporary measure).
1
Compare the ruling of the Central Appeals Board (CRvB) of 22 January 2019,
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2019: 338
2
Compare the ruling of the CRvB of 22 March 2016, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2016: 1004.
3
Compare the ruling of the CRVB of 31 May 2022, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2022: 1205
4
Article 3, paragraph 4, under b, of the PW.
5
See for example the ruling of the CRvB of 1 June 2021, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2021: 1272.
6See for example the ruling of the CRvB of July 26, 2022, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2022: 1739.