ECLI: NL: Gharl: 2019: 8175
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: Gharl: 2019: 8175
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal
Date of judgment
08-10-2019
Date of publication
15-01-2020
Case
200.254.489
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Interrelation
Contents indication
Divorce.IPR, Iranian law applies to matrimonial property regime.4 HHV 1978.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal
Location Arnhem
Civil Department
Case number Court of Appeal 200.254.489
(Case number Court of Court Gelderland 343292)
Decision of 8 October 2019
regarding
[applicant]
,, "
living in [A],
the applicant in the appeal,
further: the man,
Lawyer: J.L.Seal in Elst, municipality of Overbetuwe,
and
[defendant]
,, "
living in [A],
defendant in the appeal,
further: the woman,
Lawyer: A. Jawaheri in Amsterdam.
1
The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the Gelderland District Court, location Arnhem (hereinafter: the court), of December 13, 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.This decision is also mentioned below: the contested decision.
2
The appeals on appeal
2.1
The course of the procedure is evident from:
- the appeal with productions, received on 13 February 2019;
- the defense, also conditional incidental appeal, with productions;
- A journal report from Mr. J.L.Stampink, with productions, from 20 June 2019.
2.2
The oral hearing took place on July 4, 2019.Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.
2.3
At the hearing, the Court of Appeal ruled that the woman failed to make an incidental appeal against the contested decision so that it will not be decided at her request to pay the bridal gift and to distribute the assets of the man at Helfte.At the deliberation after the hearing, the Court turned out that this decision may be based on an incorrect basis.The Court of Appeal will give the parties the opportunity to be in writing about the intention of the Court to return to this decision.
3
The facts
3.1
Parties were married [B] in] 2012.The parties have signed a marriage certificate in which it is included that the woman is entitled to payment by the man of 110 Bahar-e-Azadi Gold Coins and that the woman is entitled to half of all assets of the man, in thecase the divorce takes place on the initiative of the man.
3.2
Both the man and the woman had the Iranian nationality at the time of the marriage.In addition to Iranian nationality, the man also had Dutch nationality.
3.3
At the time of the marriage, the man lived in the Netherlands.The woman lived in Iran.The woman joined the man in [C] around mid -March 2013.
4
The size of the dispute
4.1
On 26 September 2018, the woman submitted the divorce request with ancillary requests.In the contested decision, the court pronounced the divorce and, insofar as it is relevant here, decided as follows on the request of the woman:
“2. recommends that the parties proceed with each other to distribute the community in front of a notary (to be chosen themselves);
, however, only in case they cannot reach an agreement on the choice of a notary - as notary M. van de Geer, notary in Nijmegen, or his observer or successor and determines that
-
If the woman does not cooperate in the distribution, L. van Sommeren, lawyer in Nijmegen, if her representative will act;
-
If the man does not cooperate in the distribution, S. van Oers, lawyer in Nijmegen, will act as his representative;
(...) ”
4.2
The man appealed with one complaint of the contested decision.This complaint refers to the court's consideration that, in the absence of a legal choice at the time, the matrimonial property regime of the parties is governed by Dutch law.The husband requests that the contested decision with regard to the decision that Dutch matrimonial property law applies and re -dismissing, the Court of Appeal, to declare that Iranian matrimonial property law applies.
4.3
The woman defends.It requests that the Court understands to ratify the contested decision.Furthermore, the Court understands that the woman in a conditional incidental appeal requests requesting the man to pay to the woman to increase the amount of € 31,350 (the bridal gift) with the statutory interest from two weeks after service of the tegive decision and its assets to share in equal halves with the woman, with the man's order to be ordered.
5
The reasons for the decision
Jurisdiction
5.1Pursuant to Article 3 of the Regulation (EC) Nr.2201/2003 on the authority and recognition and enforcement of decisions in marriage cases and with regard to parental responsibility (Brussels IIbis), the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for divorce.It follows from Article 4, paragraph 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in combination with Article 3 of Brussels IIbis that the Dutch court then also has jurisdiction with regard to the dispute about the matrimonial assets of the parties.In view of the foregoing, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the court was authorized to take cognizance of the divorce request submitted on 26 September 2018, since the parties had their habitual residence in the Netherlands at the time of the request of the request, namelyIn [A].
Applicable law
5.2
There is a dispute between the parties what right applies to their matrimonial property regime.This is related to dispute whether the various assets should be distributed and whether the man should pay the wife the bridal gift.
5.3
The court considers as follows.The parties are married [in] 2012. In view of the date of the wedding ceremony, the Convention on the Law that applies to the matrimonial property regime, or the Hague Marriage Convention 1978 (HHV1978) applies.
5.4
Pursuant to Article 3 HHV 1978, the matrimonial property regime is governed by the internal law that the spouses have designated before their marriage.According to Article 11 HHV1978, a choice of law must explicitly have been agreed between the spouses or unambiguously arise from the marital conditions they have made.It is important that the spouses make the choice of law jointly.Now that the woman, the man's statement that the marriage certificate would show the choice of law, has disputed, and that the marriage certificate is not expressed by the choice of law nor an implicit choice of law, in the opinion of the Court there is no question of a choice of law.In view of this, the Court of Appeal will investigate whether the right of the first marriage domicile applies in this case pursuant to Article 4 paragraph 1 of the HHV1978.
The Court finds that the parties did not start living together immediately after their marriage.The traded at the hearing of 4 July 2019 showed that the woman remained in Iran after the wedding ceremony and that the man left for the Netherlands again.Parties agree that the woman joined the man in the Netherlands around mid -March 2013.That is almost a year later than the date of the wedding ceremony.In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, a first marriage domicile is missing in this case (see also ECLI: NL: Gharl: 2019: 2397).
Now that there is no choice of law, nor a first marriage domicile follows from Article 4, paragraph 2 of the HHV 1978 that the matrimonial property regime is governed by the law of the state of the common nationality of the spouses at the time of the marriage closure.The Court considers that both parties had Iranian nationality at the time of their marriage.It follows that Iranian law applies to the matrimonial property regime.In view of this, the man's complaint succeeds in his appeal and fails the woman's defense.This means that the statement requested by the man that Iranian law applies to the wedding capacity regime of the parties can be granted.
5.5
Now that the man's complaint succeeds, the Court of Appeal is coming to the assessment of whether the woman's defense should be considered as a conditional incidental appeal.As mentioned above under 2.3, the Court of Appeal will give the parties the opportunity to be in writing about the intended decision of the Court of Court with regard to the conditional incidental appeal of women.In addition, the parties must then indicate whether, in the event that the Court of Appeal comes back to her decision that the woman has not lodged an incidental appeal, wish an oral hearing or prefer a written settlement by the Court of Appeal.In the latter case, the parties must indicate whether they wish a further written round, or whether the Court can take the case on the documents present.
The Court of Appeal gives the parties to investigating - now that this decision is provided about what law applies - to investigate whether they can make an amicable regulation to terminate this dispute, as was discussed at the hearing.
5.6
Every further decision will be arrested.
6
The decision
The Court of Appeal,
gives the parties the opportunity to be released by letter to the Registry and the Other Party as referred to in 5.5 on Tuesday 22 October 2019.
keeps every further decision.This decision was given by Mrs.H. PHAFF, I.G.T.M.Weijers - van der Marck and A.L.H.Ernes, assisted by J.M.G.van Wijk as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 8 October 2019.