ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2021: 1250
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2021: 1250
Instance
Court of Appeal Amsterdam
Date of judgment
20-04-2021
Date of publication
03-05-2021
Case
200.280.650/01
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Appeal
,, "
Order
Contents indication
conformity
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Appeal Amsterdam
Department of Civil Law and Tax Law
Team III (family and juvenile law)
Case number: 200.280.650/01
Case number Court: C/15/297580/FA RK 19-7388
Decision of the multiple room of April 20, 2021 on
[the man] ,
living in [residence], municipality [municipality],
the applicant in principal profession,
defendant in incidental profession,
further: the man,
Lawyer: A.M.Buitenhuis in Nieuw-Vennep,
and
[the woman] ,
living in [residence], municipality [municipality],
Defendant in principal profession,
applicant in incidental appeal,
further: the woman,
Lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam.
As an interested party, it is considered to be the minor:
- [X] (hereinafter referred to as: [the minor]).
1
The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the Noord-Holland District Court, location Haarlem (hereinafter: the court), of 1 April 2020, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.
2
The appeals on appeal
2.1
The man appealed on July 13, 2020 of the aforementioned decision of 1 April 2020.
2.2
On 3 August 2020, the woman also appealed a statement of defense on an incidental appeal.
2.3
The man submitted an additional request on January 18, 2021.
2.4
By journal report of 28 January 2021, the man's lawyer informed the court that the parties have reached agreement.As an appendix to this journal report, a letter signed by the Woman's lawyer was submitted from the man's lawyer of 28 January 2021 in which the agreements between the parties are included with the request to include them in the decision.The lawyers have announced that the oral treatment planned on January 29, 2021 does not have to continue.
2.5
In view of the agreement reached by the parties, the Court will decide on the basis of the documents received, therefore without handling the case at the hearing.
3
The facts
3.1
Parties are [place] in [place], Syria, married to each other.The marriage of the parties was dissolved on 18 September 2020 by registration of the divorce decision in the registers of the Civil Registry.According to the basic registration of persons, who has ex officio consulted the Court, the man has Dutch nationality and the woman the Syrian nationality.
3.2
[the minor], born [in] 2010 in [birthplace], Syria, is the son of [Y], the daughter of parties (hereinafter: the daughter).With the permission of the daughter, [the minor] came to the Netherlands and the parties took care of [the minor] during their marriage.
3.3
By decision of the court of 10 May 2019, the parties were appointed as guardian of [the minor].
4
The size of the dispute
4.1
At the contested decision, at the request of the woman, the divorce between the parties has been pronounced and stipulated that the woman will be a tenant of the rental home of the parties, from the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the register of the civil status.
4.2
In the principal appeal, the man initially requested, with the annulment of the contested decision and again, to pronounce the divorce between the parties and to grant the rent of the home to him and in the alternative, after supplementing his request, the co -use lawto be allocated of the marital home for a period of six months after the registration of the decision to be given, and furthermore to establish an access arrangement, which means that [the minor] is staying with him every week during a week.
4.3
The woman initially requested an appeal in principle to declare the man inadmissible or to reject his requests, and to establish an access arrangement in an incidental appeal, which means that [the minor] in the odd weeksStays with the man from Friday 5 pm to Sunday 6 pm.
5
The reasons for the decision
5.1.
According to the aforementioned letter mentioned above, the parties have reached agreement on their points of appeals and they have requested the Court to - literally shown - to include the following in a decision;
to pronounce the divorce between parties, married in [place], Syria, [in] 1988;
The woman receives the upbringing and care about the minor [the minor], not being their actually child, about her;The man is entitled to contact every two weeks with the child from Friday 6:00 pm to Sunday until 6:00 pm.The child is brought to school by the woman herself on Monday morning;
Departure between the man and the child is possible during the holidays (not when the child goes to school);
the woman to grant the rental right of the house to the address [address], [place of residence] from the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of the Civil Registry;
The man may stay in the home for a maximum of 9 months from the lawyers.
5.2
Now that the parties have reached an agreement in the aforementioned sense and they request the Court of appeal to lay down what they have agreed in a decision, the Court assumes that the parties have withdrawn their original requests.In view of the amended requests, the Court will ratify the contested decision with regard to the decision on divorce and the granting of the tenancy right to the woman.To that extent, the parties no longer have an interest in the request to pronounce the divorce and the request to grant the tenancy right of the house to the address [address], [place of residence] to the woman.
The Court of Appeal will take over the other agreements made, namely the agreements under 2, 3, 4 and 6 in the Dictum.In addition, the Court of Appeal assumes that the interests of the minor do not oppose this for the agreements under 2, 3 and 4.It is undisputed that the minor was part of the family (Sleven) of the parties.With regard to the agreement under 5, the lawyers signed the letter in which the agreement was included on January 28, 2021, so that the man may stay in the home in accordance with the agreements for up to nine months after that date.
5.3
The foregoing leads to the following decision.
6
The decision
The Council:
Confirms the decision of which appeals that the divorce has been pronounced, and it has been stipulated that from the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of the Civil Registry, the tenant of the property will be at the address [address] in[residence] ;
determines that the woman receives the upbringing and care about the minor [the minor], not being their actually child;
It stipulates that the man has the right to deal with [the minor] every two weeks from Friday 6:00 pm to Sunday until 6:00 pm.[the minor] will be brought to school by the woman herself on Monday morning;
stipulates that handling between the father and [the minor] is possible during the holidays (not when the child goes to school);
stipulates that the man may stay in the home for a maximum of 9 months from January 28, 2021;
the appeal rejects more or otherwise requested.
This decision was given by C.M.J.Peters, mr. W.F.Groos and mr. T.A.M.Tijhuis, in the presence of the clerk and was pronounced in public on April 20, 2021 by A. Sturhoofd.