ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2020: 2937
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2020: 2937
Instance
Court of Noord-Holland
Date of judgment
20-04-2020
Date of publication
22-04-2020
Case
AWB - 19 _ 3766
Jurisdiction
Administrative law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Statement of urgency on good grounds.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Noord-Holland
Seat Haarlem
Administrative law
Case number: Haa 19/3766
Decision of the single Chamber of 20 April 2020 in the case between
[plaintiff], in [place of residence], plaintiff,
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The Municipal Executive of Purmerend, defendant,
(Agreers: C. Kievit and K. Verlinden).
Process
By decision of 18 February 2019, the defendant refused to grant an urgency statement to the claimant.
By decision of 25 July 2019 (the contested decision), the defendant declared the claimant's objection disposed of the plaintiff displayed as displayed.
Plaintiff has appealed against the contested decision.
The defendant has submitted a statement of defense.
The investigation at the hearing took place on 27 February 2020. Plaintiff and the defendant appeared by the authorized representative.
Consideration
1. For the relevant legal framework, the court refers to the appendix.This appendix is part of this ruling.
2. Plaintiff lives with her minor son with her mother.On January 29, 2019, she submitted an application to the defendant to obtain an urgency declaration, so that she and her son are eligible for a rental home with priority.In short, she has based her application for priority that the relationship with her mother has deteriorated in such a way that she can no longer live under one roof and that her mother will put the plaintiff and her son on the street in the foreseeable future.
3. The defendant has rejected the application and maintained this rejection in objection.The defendant has based this on the fact that the plaintiff lives with her mother so that there is no question of homelessness.On the basis of the medical statements submitted, it has not made it plausible that it can reasonably no longer be able to use the current home, so that there is no urgent housing problem.Furthermore, the plaintiff has not done everything that is reasonably possible to resolve her housing problem now that she has not started looking for homes outside the Purmerend region where the housing pressure is less large.Furthermore, the defendant has indicated that it has not been shown by a situation in which the plaintiff needs living space on the basis of medical or social reasons.Finally, the plaintiff is not eligible for the granting of an urgency statement based on the hardship clause, according to the defendant.
4. Plaintiff is of the opinion that the defendant wrongly refused the urgency statement.She has an urgent housing problem.Plaintiff and her mother suffer from mental problems and can no longer live together.She has to leave the house from her mother within the foreseeable future.The plaintiff cannot be blamed for insufficiently sought a house outside the Purmerend region because this is disproportionately onerous for her.There is a close bond between her child and his grandmother.Her mother has a major role in the child's upbringing.She is an important person in his upbringing.The psychological disorder of the plaintiff is sufficient reason to grant her an urgency statement on the basis of medical reasons.The defendant wrongly states that it has insufficiently substantiated her medical condition.Finally, the plaintiff appeals to the hardship clause.
5.1
To substantiate her situation, the plaintiff first of all submitted a statement J. Bouman, GZ psychologist of Emandigo of 16 July 2018. According to the statement, Bouman is the practitioner of [mother];Plaintiff's mother.
5.2In addition, the plaintiff has submitted a statement from A. Hirschfeld, clinical psychologist and psychotherapist at PsyQ dated 22 August 2018. The statement is a conclusion after intake and is shown in short that there is a tensioning situation at the plaintiff at home by which there is a spanning situationShe suffers from increasing eating problems and depressive complaints, which are difficult to treat if she continues to live with her mother.Furthermore, it has been indicated that the situation will be worrying and that the claimant would benefit greatly from an owner -occupied home.According to the statement, this was drawn up in response to "the intake" and it was dated 22 August 2018, therefore about five months prior to the application for urgency and seven months before submitting the objection.Because the statement was drawn up in the starting process of treatment and a lot of time had passed since then, the defendant gave the plaintiff the opportunity to submit a statement of the treating psychologist about the current state of affairs at email of 17 April 2019.
5.3
Subsequently, the plaintiff submitted a statement on 16 May 2019 signed by S. van Lieshout, psychologist at PsyQ.At the bottom of this statement is also the name of Hirschfeld, but it has not signed the statement.The statement is dated May 16, 2018 (presumably meant 2019).The statement which editorial largely corresponds to the declaration described above of 22 August 2018 states the following:
'Ir/Madam,
Hereby I ask attention to the situation that arose from the above lady, who has led to such a statement of her state image that a worrying situation has arisen.I think that Mrs. and her son urgently need her own place to live.For several months, the above lady has been re -registered at this institution.Our conclusion after intake: the patient is a 27-year-old young woman, mother of a 3-year-old son, who rewrites in connection with mood complaints, fatigue, tensions at home, and eating problems.The eating problems have been there since she was 16, when she has had various clinical recordings in connection with Anorexia and Boulimia.It went a bit better, recently the complaints came back and are now in the foreground.There seems to be a connection with an earlier access arrangement of patients son with her ex-husband.This man seriously mistreated her, her mother was also mistreated, so that the patient with her mother moved to another part of the country.The patient's mother also seems to be traumatized from the description.Patient and mother now live under one roof, but clash a lot of tensions and makes the living situation very stressful for both.These tensions at home cause increasing eating problems, and depressive complaints, which are difficult to treat if the lady continues to live in the same situation as now.The patient has been referred to Novarum for her eating problems, to which she will be invited to intake in the short term.She will benefit better from treatment in another living situation.Patient and her son would benefit greatly from his own home.
Yours sincerely,
S. van Lieshout
Psychologist
Mw a hirschfeld
Clinical psychologist, psychotherapist "
5.4
The court is of the opinion that with the statements submitted, the current medical situation of the plaintiff has not been given.Bouman's statement does not see the plaintiff but on her mother and therefore cannot serve as a substantiation of the problem of the plaintiff.The Hirschfeld statement of 22 August 2018 was drawn up as a result of an intake and dated at the time of the primary and the contested decision.The additional statement of 16 May 2018 requested by the defendant (assuming that it was drawn up on 16 May 2019) was also drawn up in response to an intake after the plaintiff apparently had been re -registered a few months earlier.As already indicated, the editors of this statement are largely in line with the earlier statement of 22 August 2018. This statement raises questions now that on the one hand it is quite certainly indicated that the plaintiff and her son would benefit greatly from his own home, but on the other hand the states theauthor of it that she
thinks
That the plaintiff and her son urgently need his own place to live.
5.5In view of the above, the defendant did not reasonably have to assume on the basis of these statements that there is an urgent housing problem within the meaning of Article 2.6.5, first paragraph, preamble and under b, of the Housing Regulation Municipality of Purmerend 2018 (hereinafter: theHousing Regulation).The fact that the mother will put the plaintiff and her child on the street in the opinion of the court has not become plausible.An earlier ultimatum previously set has also passed without consequences.At the hearing, the plaintiff's authorized representative indicated that the claimant's mother would come to the seat.She would -as the court understood the authorized representative about the poor relationship between her and the plaintiff and that the plaintiff will also have to leave the house in the short term.However, the mother canceled at the last minute because she could not appear at the hearing, according to the plaintiff's authorized representative.The court sees no reason to reopen the investigation now that since the appeal has been submitted, for six months, there has been sufficient time to submit a written statement drawn up by the mother.
5.6
Furthermore, the defendant took the position that the plaintiff could reasonably prevent the housing problem or could reasonably resolve it in another way, so that the refusal grounds included in Article 2.6.5, first paragraph, preamble and under c of the Housing Regulation also apply.The court is of the opinion that the defendant could reasonably have been able to take this position now that, according to the documents, the plaintiff has hardly responded to homes outside the Purmerend region.The court does not consider that the plaintiff considers it desirable to live near her mother in view of the good relationship between her mother and her son and that a change from school is not desirable for her son.However, the defendant did not have to see any reason to prevent the ground for refusal of Article 2.6.5, first paragraph, preamble and under c not against the plaintiff now that the plaintiff has not substantiated with (medical) documents why they (for the reasons it mentioned)could not settle outside the Purmerend region.
5.7
The interim conclusion is therefore that, on the basis of what has been considered above, the defendant was reasonably laid down in Article 2.6.5, first paragraph, preamble and under b and c of the Housing Regulation to the claimant.In view of these imperative grounds for refusal, the statement that the plaintiff is eligible for an urgency declaration on the basis of medical or social reasons.
5.8
Finally, the court is of the opinion that the defendant was reasonably able to take the position that the plaintiff is not eligible for an urgency declaration on the basis of Article 2.6.11, first paragraph, preamble and under a and b, of the Housing Regulation (the hardship clause).After all, there are, after all, circumstances now that the general grounds for refusal in Article 2.6.5, first paragraph, preamble and under b and c, of the Housing Regulation apply.These general grounds for refusal can be regarded as provided for circumstances within the meaning of Article 2.6.11, first paragraph, preamble and under b, aforementioned.In view of the cumulative nature of the conditions referred to in the aforementioned Article 2.6.11, the defendant could leave the question of whether there is a harrowing situation undiscussed.
5.9
The appeal is unfounded.There is no reason for a proceedings order.
Decision
The court declares the appeal unfounded.
This statement was made by W.B.Klaus, judge, in the presence of J. Poggemeier, clerk.This ruling was made April 20, 2020. As a result of the measures surrounding the coronavirus, this ruling was not pronounced on a public judgment session.As soon as the public pronouncing is possible again, this decision is still pronounced in public.
clerk
Copy sent to the parties on:
Remedial agentA appeal can be lodged against this decision within six weeks of the day of shipment thereof with the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State.If an appeal has been lodged, the preliminary relief judge of the higher appeal judge may be requested to make a provisional provision.