ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 1529
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2023: 1529
Instance
Court of Central Netherlands
Date of judgment
22-02-2023
Date of publication
20-04-2023
Case
Utr 22/4968
Jurisdiction
Administrative law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
No court fees;inadmissible
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court [Central Netherlands
Seat in Utrecht
Administrative law
Case number: Utr 22/4968
ruling of the single chamber of 22 February 2023 in the case between
[plaintiff], in [place of residence], plaintiff,
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The Board of Directors of the Employee Insurance Implementation Institute,
defendant.
Process
This decision is about the claimant's appeal against the defendant's decision of
October 14, 2022.
Consideration
1. The court does not invite the parties to a hearing, because this is not necessary in this case.The plaintiff did not pay the court fees, so that the court cannot deal with the case substantively.The court will explain that further below.
2. Someone who appeals must pay court fees.This is stated in Article 8:41, first paragraph, of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb).In this case, the court fees are € 50.
3. If the court fees are not paid, the main rule is that the court may not handle the appeal substantively.Sometimes it is different.Then there is a valid reason why the court fees were not received by the court.This concerns circumstances that the plaintiff cannot do anything about.
4. On November 26, 2022, the court sent the plaintiff a registered letter, stating that the plaintiff must pay the court fee to the court within four weeks.
5. The court did not receive the amount.Plaintiff has not given a valid reason for that.
6. The appeal will not be dealt with substantively and the court will not make a decision about the appeal.The profession is apparently inadmissible (Article 8:54 Awb).
7. There is no reason for a reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings.
Decision
The court declares the appeal inadmissible.
This statement was made by R.C.Stijnen, Judge, in the presence of S. Ayyildiz, clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on February 22, 2022.
clerk
Copy sent to the parties on:
Do you disagree with this statement?
If you do not agree with this ruling, you can send a letter to the court in which you explain why you do not agree.This is called a resistance.You must submit this resistance within 6 weeks of the day on which this ruling was sent.You can see this date on the stamp that is stated above.If you would like a session where you can personally give your opinion to the judge, you can indicate this in your resistance.