ECLI: NL: RBGEL: 2022: 3858
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBGEL: 2022: 3858
Instance
Gelderland District Court
Date of judgment
25-07-2022
Date of publication
26-07-2022
Case
AWB - 21 _ 3640
Jurisdiction
Administrative law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Participation Act.The entitlement to the bridal gift received by the Plaintiff already existed at the start of the assistance.Profession unfounded.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Gelderland District Court
Arnhem seat
Administrative law
Case number: Arn 21/3640
pronunciation of the single room of
in the case between
[plaintiff], from [place of residence], plaintiff
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of the municipality of Berg en Dal
(defendant)
(Agreers: B. Arabaci).
Introduction
1. In this decision, the court assesses the claimant's appeal against the recovery of assistance provided to it on the basis of the Participation Act (PW).
1.1.
In the decision of 12 June 2020, the defendant of the plaintiff has an amount of
€ 4,138.81 reclaimed.With the contested decision of 2 February 2020 on the claimant's objection, the defendant - with reference to the advice of the retention committee - remained by that decision.
1.2.
The court dealt with the appeal on July 12, 2022 at the hearing.Participated in this: plaintiff, the authorized representative of the plaintiff and the representative of the defendant.
Assessment by the court
2. The court assesses the decision to recover assistance as a result of exceeding the power limit.She does that on the basis of the arguments that the plaintiff has put forward, the grounds of appeal.
3. The court is of the opinion that the appeal is unfounded
.
After this, the court explains how it comes to this judgment and what consequences this judgment has.
4. The court assumed the following facts.
Plaintiff has been married.By decision of 13 December 2018 of the Gelderland District Court, the divorce was pronounced between her and her ex-armor.This decision was registered in the registers of the Civil Registry on 6 March 2019.
Plaintiff has received assistance from the defendant since 24 April 2019.The defendant set the assets as of that date at € 578.81 and the power to be released at € 12,240.This is stated in a decision that was sent to her on 2 May 2019.It states that it may be that the decision can be revised if it appears that the claimant's claim to money is higher than the current (read: at the time of the application) determined.On January 23, 2020, the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal ordered the ex-husband of the plaintiff to pay an amount of € 31,350.00 plus statutory interest.In 2020, the plaintiff received an amount of € 31,500.00 in her account.The decision -making was followed as included under 1.1.
Has the appeal been filed in time?
5. The court sees itself officially asked whether the appeal has been filed in time.Pursuant to Article 6: 7 of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb), the period for submitting an appeal is six weeks.In view of Article 6: 8, first paragraph, of the Awb, this period starts with effect from the day after that on which the decision was announced in the prescribed manner.Pursuant to Article 6: 9, first paragraph of the Awb, an appeal has been submitted in time if it has been received before the end of the period.
5.1.
The contested decision states the date 2 February 2020. It was established at the hearing that this is an obvious error;The decision was taken on 2 February 2021.According to the plaintiff, she only received the contested decision by e-mail on 21 July 2021.After a question from the court, the defendant announced by letter 7 January 2022 that he had no documents regarding the shipment of the decision of 2 February 2021 and therefore not to be able to demonstrate when the contested decision was announced.That is why the court is based on the receipt date set by the claimant.For that reason, the appeal was submitted in time.The court proceeds to the substantive handling of the appeal.
Has the defendant violated the hearing obligation?
6. According to the plaintiff, the defendant did not offer her the opportunity to explain her objection during a hearing, while she has therefore asked in the notice of objection.The file contains no documents that show that the defendant has offered that possibility.
At the hearing, the plaintiff acknowledged that she was invited to explain her notice of objection during a hearing.However, she has requested a postponement because her authorized representative could not be present.Because this request has not been honored, the hearing obligation was violated.
6.1.The court is of the opinion that the defendant did not violate the hearing obligation, as laid down in Article 7: 2, first paragraph, of the Awb.It is not in dispute that a hearing has taken place.From the email correspondence of November 2, 2020
1
The following appears between the objections committee and the authorized representative of the plaintiff.On the day of the hearing, an office member of the plaintiff's representative stated that the authorized representative could not be present at the hearing unexpectedly and that a colleague could possibly (only) take over the hearing by telephone.A response from the secretary of the Objections Committee (hereinafter: the Commission) to the office of the authorized representative shows that this secretary answered that the plaintiff and her authorized representative had not registered for the hearing (that was requested from Corona), so thatThe committee had assumed that nobody would appear on behalf of the plaintiff.Subsequently, you were asked who the Commission can contact us by telephone if the committee urgently would like to speak to someone.The name of a colleague of the authorized representative was then mentioned.At the hearing, the authorized representative of the plaintiff confirmed this course of events.It has not been disputed that the plaintiff received an invitation for the hearing, nor that it was announced that she - or someone on behalf of her - would come.
It follows that the plaintiff has been invited to the hearing, but that she - or her authorized representative - did not use it.Only on the day of the hearing did the plaintiff be announced that he could not be present.It is not clear why the plaintiff did not come to the hearing.The email correspondence does not show that a delay was requested from the hearing.The plaintiff did not substantiate her statement at the hearing, that she therefore requested.Under these circumstances it is not possible to see why the defendant was held to resist the hearing.
This professional ground does not succeed.
Is the contested decision properly motivated?
7. According to the plaintiff, the defendant is sufficient for the reasons for the contested decision with a reference to the committee's advice, while this advice has not been submitted.The contested decision is therefore inadequately motivated.The defense that the defendant has entered with the committee in the objection procedure also shows that he deviates from the primary decision.It can be deduced from this that the objection was in any case partially declared well -founded.
7.1.1.
The court is of the opinion that the contested decision is sufficiently substantiated.According to settled case law, Article 7:11 of the Awb does not stand in the way of maintaining a primary decision on a ground other than on which the primary decision supports, because the objection procedure is intended for a complete reconsideration.
2
Insofar as the defendant has foreseen his decision in the objection of another statement of reasons, this does not lead to a lack of reasons.
7.1.2.
Insofar as the defendant did not send the committee's advice to the contested decision, in the opinion of the court, this does not lead to a lack of reasons.In the contested decision, the defendant refers to the committee's advice that was issued on December 2, 2020.That means that the contested decision was provided with a sufficient reasons.Although the mere circumstance that the defendant did not send the advice by mistake is sloppy, it does not make this different.In this procedure, the plaintiff has still received access to this advice and was able to take note of it.It has neither been stated nor proved that it has been disadvantaged by this course of events.
This professional ground does not succeed.
Has the defendant rightly attributed the bridal gift to the assets at the start of the assistance?
8. According to the plaintiff, the claim to the bridal gift did not yet exist at the time of applying for assistance and it was also not clear that the plaintiff could claim that.There was still a civil proceedings between the plaintiff and her former husband in which the claim to the bridal gift was the subject of dispute.There was no question of a contribution.
8.1.
The court is of the opinion that the defendant was right to allocate the bridal gift to the assets at the start of the assistance.
Based on the PW
3
the Municipal Executive that has provided assistance can reclaim costs of assistance insofar as the assistance has been paid unmessed other than by breaching the obligation to provide information, including the situation that the person concerned afterwards with regard to the period for which assistance has been provided inAcquisition as referred to in section 3.4 of the PW has or can dispose.From legal consideration 2.5.The decision of 23 January 2020 of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal shows that, as the plaintiff rightly states, the plaintiff's bridal gift is not related to a separation because the bridal gift does not fall under (Iranian) matrimonial property law.To the extent that the plaintiff wanted to state that for that reason alone, the bridal gift cannot be taken into account, the court does not follow her in it.The decision -making is based on the position that the plaintiff has received the decision on resources (assets).Since it is not in dispute that the plaintiff has obtained the decision on resources (the bridal gift), and is only in dispute or (the entitlement to) this capital was already there on 24 April 2019, it is not relevant in this procedure whether these resources were obtainedAfter a breakdown or for another reason.It therefore does not mean that the defendant was not allowed to attribute the bridal gift to the assets for that reason.
Plaintiff received assistance from 24 April 2019.Contrary to the claimant, the entitlement to the bridal gift then already consisted of legal consideration 2.7.From the decision of 23 January 2020 of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal, the court concludes that the plaintiff was entitled to a bridal gift on the part of her (former) spouse and that she could claim it at any time, without further conditionscould be stated.It can also be deduced from that decision that she was able to claim the bridal gift during and after marriage.The plaintiff was therefore entitled to the bridal gift at any time, also at the start of social assistance.
4
In the opinion of the court, the circumstance that there was still a procedure about that bridal gift and the amount of the claim has not yet been established.
Plaintiff has received a total of € 31,500.00.The foregoing means that the claim to this existed at the start of the assistance.She therefore had resources with regard to a period for which assistance had been provided.
5
The defendant also informed the plaintiff in advance that her assets might be reassessed.In the award decision of 2 May 2019, the defendant stated that the assets can be again determined if it appears that the claimant to money from the contribution is higher than the current (read: at the time of the application).
This professional ground does not succeed.
Did the defendant rightly not take into account the plaintiff's debts at the start of the benefit?
9. According to the plaintiff, the defendant wrongly did not take into account the debts not mentioned by the plaintiff at the start of the assistance.The defendant should have taken these debts into account now that he has also chosen to take the bridal gift into account.According to the plaintiff, there was no need for reporting the debts at the time of the claimant's application, because according to her that had no consequences for her right to assistance.Moreover, the plaintiff explained sufficiently how it is that these debts had not been reported before.The plaintiff states that, contrary to what the defendant indicates, she does have a repayment obligation.
9.1.
In the opinion of the court, the defendant rightly did not take into account the debts of the plaintiff.In order for a debt in the context of the asset to include, the existence of the debt must have been made plausible and there must be an actual repayment obligation.
6
In its advice, the committee has already explained in detail as to why the plaintiff's debts were not (still) taken into account in the asset determination for family members.This means that the plaintiff's debts are not debts within the meaning of the PW because there is no refund obligation.The Geldleen agreements do not show that it exists and it has not been shown that the plaintiff (does) pay off on the debts.
At the hearing, the plaintiff argued for the first time that she will pay off on these debts.The plaintiff has not substantiated this statement with supporting documents.The statement at the hearing, that the Geldleen agreements were drawn up by "simple people", is also not substantiated.It is also not possible to see why "simple people" would not (apparently) think about including a repayment obligation in an agreement if the intention is to pay for it.With the defendant, the court is of the opinion that under these circumstances the plaintiff has not made it plausible that there was an actual repayment obligation or that it is actually being repaid.The defendant therefore did not have to include these debts in the wealth of assets.
This professional ground does not succeed.
Has the defendant sufficiently involved the interests of the plaintiff in decision -making?10. According to the plaintiff, she was in an emergency situation at the time of the application, so that she was unable to report all relevant facts and circumstances.In addition, the plaintiff has the care of her minor child with a special care need.The defendant has insufficiently involved the personal circumstances of the plaintiff in the decision.
10.1.
The court conceived this appeal as an appeal to the principle of proportionality.Because the plaintiff has not substantiated the disproportionate disadvantage of the defendant decision -making for her, the court is of the opinion that it has not been shown to be conflict with the proportionality principle.
This professional ground does not succeed.
Conclusion and consequences
11. The appeal is unfounded.This means that the defendant has rightly reclaimed the assistance as a result of the power received by the plaintiff.There is no reason for a proceedings order.
Decision
The court declares the appeal unfounded.
This statement was made by mr. A.S.W.Kroon, judge, in the presence of A.J.Vaessen, clerk.The decision was pronounced in public
clerk
right
A copy of this ruling has been sent to the parties on:
Information about appeal
A party that does not agree with this decision can send a higher appeal to the Central Council of Appeal in which it is explained why this party does not agree with this decision.The appeal must be submitted within six weeks of the day on which this ruling was sent.If the applicant cannot await the handling of the appeal, because the case has urgent, the submission of the preliminary relief proceedings may ask the Central Appeals Appeal to make a provisional provision (a temporary measure).
1
At the hearing, the representative of the defendant indicated that he had been sent to court in the morning but had not reached the court.During the hearing, the defendant emailed the letter to the plaintiff's authorized representative.The email of November 2, 2020 was discussed at the hearing.After the hearing it turned out that the email had not arrived at the court and it was still requested and received.
2
See for example the ruling of 4 July 2017 (ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2017: 2323).
3
Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under f, first sentence, of the PW.
4
See for example the ruling of 28 February 2006 (ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2006: AV3011).
5
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2016: 4029.
6
See for example the ruling of 2 December 2019 (ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2019: 3824).