ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2023: 8126
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2023: 8126
Instance
Rotterdam District Court
Date of judgment
30-08-2023
Date of publication
13-09-2023
Case
C/10/645909/HA SA 22-810
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
claim for payment of bridal based on Iranian law;ask if the man can settle with the claim he has under Iranian law for cooperating in a religious divorce;testing of the man's counterclaim against public order
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Rotterdam District Court
Team Handel and Haven
Dordrecht seat
Case number / Role number: C / 10/645909 / HA SA 22-810
Judgment of 6 September 2023
in the case of
[plaintiff01]
,, "
with chosen domicile at the office of her lawyer,
Plaintiff,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
[defendant01]
,, "
residing in Dordrecht,
defendant,
Lawyer A. Apistola in Zwijndrecht.
Parties will be mentioned below the woman and the man.
1.
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the judgment in the incident of 14 April 2021 and the underlying procedural documents;
-
the exploit summons after referral of 26 September 2022;
-
the letter from the court of 12 December 2022 in which the parties were called up for a hearing in this case;
-
the letter from the court of 14 February 2023, in which the court stipulated, among other things, that the hearing in this case will partly relate to the procedures of the role numbers HA SA 22-816 and HA SA 22-832;
-
The letter from Apistola on behalf of the man of 27 February 2023, with four productions;
-
the oral treatment on March 9, 2023, of which the clerk made notes;
-
the letter from the court of 10 March 2023;
-
the deed of the woman of May 24, 2023, with one production;
-
The answer deed of the man of July 5, 2023.
1.2.
Subsequently, a date for judgment was determined.
2. The facts
2.1.
The parties are married in Iran on [Date01].The man already lived in the Netherlands then.The woman still lived in Iran.The woman came to the Netherlands in 2018.
2.2.
At the time of the marriage, both had the Iranian nationality and the man also had Dutch nationality.This is also the case now.
2.3.
After the arrival to the Netherlands of the woman, the parties lived together for a few months.Then the cohabitation was broken by the woman.
2.4.
On May 23, 2019, the man submitted a request for divorce to this court.On 10 June 2019, the woman acted a defense and requested the court as an independent request to pronounce the divorce, as well as to order the man to pay € 146,490 in respect of a wedding gift and to the issue of half of his assetsTo the woman.Afterwards the parties withdrew these requests and the procedure ended.
2.5.
On 16 June 2019, the family court of the AHWAZ district in Iran sentenced the man at the request of the woman to pay for a bridal gift of 514 full Bahar Azadi coins.The judgment (hereinafter: the Iranian verdict) states that it was mentioned in absentia.
2.6.
On July 21, 2020, the woman summoned the man in the present case.With a judgment of the Court of Appeal The Hague, this case was referred to this court in a jurisdiction incident.
2.7.
On October 4, 2022, the woman summoned the man in proceedings at this court in which she claims that the man is being sentenced to cooperate with an Iranian religious divorce (role number HA SA 22-816) and on October 7, 2022 the woman has summoned the manIn the proceedings at this court in which it claims on the basis of Article 431, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, that authority is granted to the Iranian judgment (role number HA SA 22-832).The oral treatment after reference in the present procedure is subsequently added with the oral treatment in the procedures with roll numbers HA SA 22-816 and HA SA 22-832.
2.8.
In the procedures with roll numbers HA SA 220-816 and HA SA 22-832, judgment will be given on the date of this judgment.
2.9.
On May 31, 2022, the woman submitted a (new) divorce request to this court.
3.
The dispute
3.1.
In these proceedings, the woman claims that the court, as far as possible, enforceable in stock:
1. The man condemns the transfer of 514 Bahar-e-Azadi gold coins or a
equivalent of this equal to € 433,995.90;and
2. The man condemns the costs of the proceedings and subsequent costs, plus the
Legal interest from fourteen days after the date of the judgment to be considered until the day of overall payment.
3.2.
The man defends and concludes the inadmissibility of the woman in her claims, at least rejection of those claims, with the order of the woman in the costs of the proceedings, all that is enforceable in stock.
4.The assessment
4.1.
The man has argued that it is not certain that the woman's lawyer is authorized to perform on behalf of the woman.The woman's lawyer, however, stated at the hearing that he is authorized to perform on behalf of the woman.The court is based on the accuracy of this statement and therefore ignores this defense.
4.2.
In these proceedings, the woman claims that the court condemns the man for transfer of 514 Bahar-e-Azadi Golden Coins or an equivalent thereof equal to € 433,995.90.This procedure shows coincidence with the procedure mentioned above under 2.7 with roll number HA SA 22-832 in which the woman claims that the court grants the Iranian judgment on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 431 of the Code of Civil Procedure.At the hearing, the woman indicated that the claim in the procedure with role number HA ZA 22-832 should be regarded as its primary claim, and the claim in the present procedure as a subsidiary claim.If the claim in the case with roll number HA SA 22-832 is granted, the woman will withdraw the claim in the present procedure.The court understands that the woman only requires a decision in the present proceedings if the court decides in the procedure with roll number HA SA 22-832 to the disadvantage of the woman.
The court will show a judgment today in the procedure with roll number HA SA 22-832 and in that judgment the woman's claim will be rejected.This means that the court must decide on the woman's claim in the present proceedings.
4.3.
The Court of Appeal of The Hague has ruled that a bridal gift to the rules of international private law should be qualified as a legal relationship
sui generis
.The bridal gift is therefore not part of the matrimonial property regime of the parties (see Hof The Hague 26 February 2014, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2014: 486).This means that the question of whether the Dutch court has jurisdiction must be assessed on the basis of Regulation (EU) 1215/2012 (the Brussels I-BIS Regulation).Pursuant to this regulation, the judge of the State where the defendant has a place of residence is authorized.In this case that is the Netherlands.The Dutch court is therefore authorized to take cognizance of the dispute between the parties.The relative jurisdiction of this court has not been disputed and the court therefore considers itself competent to take cognizance of the woman's claim.
4.4.
The Court of Appeal of The Hague has also ruled that the question of the existence of a claim to the bridal gift must be assessed under the right to which that claim was established, whereby the intention of the parties must be in line with the intention of the parties.The bridal gift stems from the marriage concluded by the parties under Iranian law;The claim of the woman to pay the bridal gift must therefore be assessed under Iranian law.
4.5.
Among other things, the man argues that the woman can only separate with his cooperation under Iranian law.The woman claims that cooperation in the procedure with roll number HA SA 22-816.According to the man, he can demand compensation under Iranian law for that cooperation.According to the man in this case, this compensation should consist of giving up the entitlement to the bridal gift.This has been disputed by the woman.
4.6.
The court considers on this point as follows.In the marriage certificate, no general power of attorney was given to bring a separation through self -rejecting.The marriage certificate only contains a power of attorney for self -rejection in case a ground for divorce recognized by Iranian law (such as abuse) occurs.This means that the woman under Iranian law, if no recognized ground for divorce occurs, can only achieve a religious divorce with the cooperation of the man.To obtain that cooperation, the woman must offer compensation to the man.This follows from Articles 1146 and 1147 of the Iranian Dutch Civil Code (hereinafter IBW).
Article 1146 IBW (in the English translation) is as follows:
A khul'a divorce occurs when the wife obtains a divorce owing to dislike of her husband, against Property which she cedes to the husband.The Property in Question May Consist of the Original Marriage Portion, or the Monetary Equivalent Thereof, Whether More or Less than the Marriage Portion.
Article 1147 IBW reads:
“Mubarat” Divorce Occurs When The Dislike is Mutual in which Case The Compensation Must Not Be More Than The Marriage Portion.
4.7.The woman has argued that the man abused her.This would mean that a divorce of divorce recognized by Iranian law and that the woman could therefore achieve a divorce under Iranian law without the cooperation of the man and therefore without the need to pay compensation to the man.However, the mistreatment was disputed by the man and the woman subsequently substantiated her statement in any way.On the contrary: at the hearing, the woman's lawyer stated that the woman in Iran cannot get divorce because she cannot prove abuse.In view of this, the court assumes that no Iranian law occurs and that the woman can only obtain a divorce under Iranian law with the cooperation of the man, and by paying a compensation to the man.
4.8.
For the sake of completeness, the court notes that recognition of a divorce pronounced by the Dutch court does not lead to a religious divorce under Iranian law.That recognition, if it can already be obtained, only concerns the civil part of the divorce.In order to achieve a separate state under Iranian law, a religious divorce must also take place.This is evident from the translation of the relevant pages of the website of the Iranian Embassy in the Netherlands and also follows the public report
No longer chained to the marriage
from the University of Maastricht (part I/II, October 2018, p. 119).So the woman can only achieve a separate state according to Iranian law with a religious divorce.For this, now that the woman does not have the right of self -rejection, the cooperation of the man is needed, which means that the woman must offer the man a compensation.
4.9.
The question can be asked whether the right to compensate for the man is contrary to public order (because it leads to a consequence that is unacceptable in Dutch views) and must therefore be disregarded in these proceedings (Article 10: 6 of the Dutch Civil Code).It is important that the parties have not included a general proxy to self -rejecting in the marriage certificate in the present case.The parties could have chosen to include such a general proxy.In that case, the legal right of the man to compensation had not applied.The woman could have created a divorce independently without recognized ground for divorce, without having to pay compensation for it.That the man can now demand compensation is therefore the result of a choice of parties.
The consequence of the exercise of the right to compensation is in this case that the woman must give up her claim to the bridal gift.After all, the man progresses a compensation at the level of the bridal gift.The bridal gift is a (mandatory) donation of the man to the woman at the time of the wedding closure.Under Iranian law, it is not acceptable and apparently not unusual, according to Articles 1146 and 1147 IBW, that the man leaves the bridal gift back if the woman wishes a divorce without recognized grounds for divorce.There is no mechanism under Iranian law to lower that compensation.The bridal gift is therefore usually given in the knowledge that it must be returned if the woman initiates a divorce without recognized ground for divorce.This is different when a general power of attorney for self -rejecting is included in the marriage certificate, but there is no question of this in the present case.So when making the promise to pay the bridal gift, the man was allowed to take into account that the woman would abandon the bridal gift if she initiated a divorce without recognized land of divorce, and the woman had to take that into account.Under these circumstances, the court considers it not unacceptable to Dutch standards - and therefore not contrary to public order - that the man exercises his right to compensation by demanding that the woman canceled the bridal gift.This includes that it has neither been stated nor proved that the woman, who lives in the Netherlands with a valid residence title, needs the bridal gift to provide for her livelihood.
4.10.The right to compensation stands or falls under Iranian law with the freedom of the man to refuse divorce cooperation.In today's judgment in the case with roll number HA SA 22-816, the court stipulates that the man must cooperate in a religious divorce.So the man does not have the freedom to refuse his cooperation.However, this does not mean that the man cannot claim compensation.After all, the right to compensation must be assessed under Iranian law.That is why, in that assessment, the intervention of the Dutch court in the religious separation must be "removed" and the principle of Iranian law, the starting point must be taken that the man can claim a form of compensation for his cooperation in the divorce (with due observance ofthe limits set by public order).
4.11.
As has been considered above, the man can require the religious divorce for his cooperation to cooperate with the bridal gift for his cooperation and this does not result in a fight with public order.The claim of the woman to pay the bridal gift must therefore be rejected.
4.12.
In view of the foregoing, the other defenses of the man do not need a substantive assessment.
4.13.
With a view to the relationship between parties, the costs of the proceedings between them will be compensated, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
5.
The decision
The court
rejects the claim;
compensates for the costs of the proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
This verdict was given by W.A.M.Schellekens.It was signed by the roller judge and pronounced in public on September 6, 2023.
2504/3310