ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 15696
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 15696
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
23-12-2022
Date of publication
30-03-2023
Case
NL222.4778
Jurisdiction
Administrative procedural law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Registry fee not paid;Not receptive;.Plaintiff did not pay the court fee and has given no reason for this absenteeism
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
STATION SECTION Utrecht Administrative Law Case number: NL22.4778
pronunciation of the single chamber in the case between
[plaintiff], claimant V-number: [V-number]
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The State Secretary of Justice and Security, Defendant.
Process
Plaintiff lodged an appeal against the defendant's decision on the defendant of 24 February 2022 (the contested decision).
Consideration
1. Because the appeal is apparently inadmissible, the court makes a decision without a hearing.Article 8:54 of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb) makes that possible.The court then explains why the appeal is apparently inadmissible.
2. Someone who loses an appeal must pay court fees.This is stated in Article 8:41 of the Awb.In a case like this, the court fees are € 184.The clerk of the court sets a period within which the clerk must be paid.The entire amount must be credited to the court's account within that period or then paid at the court registry.If the court fees are not paid or not in time, the court declares the appeal inadmissible.That is only different if it is not or not to pay the court fee on time.
3. The Registrar has given the claimant sent by registered letter of 23 April 2022 to pay the court fee within four weeks of the date of that letter.Plaintiff did not pay the court fee and has not given any reason for this absenteeism.
4. The appeal is therefore apparently inadmissible.There is no reason for a proceedings order.
Decision
The court declares the appeal inadmissible.
This statement was made by R.J.A.Schaaf, judge in the presence of
N. Dayerizadeh, clerk.
The decision was pronounced in public and announced on:
December 23, 2022
Document code: [Document code]
Do you disagree with this statement?
If you do not agree with this ruling, you can send a letter to the court in which you explain why you do not agree.This is called a resistance.You must submit this resistance within 6 weeks of the day on which this ruling was sent.You can see this date above.If you would like a session in which you can explain your opposition, you can state this in your resistance.