ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2023: 1176
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2023: 1176
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Date of judgment
23-02-2023
Date of publication
15-03-2023
Case
C/13/698800/FA RK 21-1525
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
,, "
Order
,, "
Interim
Contents indication
Dispute joint custody.The court ordered a protection investigation by the Child Protection Board.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
order
COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Private Law Department
Case number / Record number: C / 13/698800 / FA RK 21-1525
Decision of 23 February 2023
in the case of:
[the father] ,
residing in [residence],
hereinafter referred to the father,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
[the mother] ,
residing in [residence],
hereinafter referred to as the mother,
Lawyer S. Bouddount in Weesp.
On the basis of the provisions of Article 810 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the procedure is known:
The Child Protection Board
,, "
Amsterdam region,
location Amsterdam,
hereinafter referred to as: the council.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The court has taken note of the documents, including:
-
the petition of the father, received on March 5, 2021;
-
the defense of the mother, received on May 14, 2021;
-
the official report of the oral treatment behind closed doors of 18 May 2021;
-
the F form with appendices from the father, received on December 27, 2022;
-
the additional request of the father, received on January 10, 2023;
-
The retrained documents from the father of February 22, 2023, received on February 23, 2023.
1.2.
The oral treatment behind closed doors then took place on 23 February 2023.
Paclets and their lawyers and mrs have appeared and heard.[name] as a representative of the council.
2
The facts
2.1.
Parties were married on 19 February 2013 in Rotterdam.Their marriage was dissolved on 5 July 2016 by registration of the divorce decision of this court of 15 June 2016 in the registers of civil status.
2.2.
The marriage was born:
[minor],
Born in [birthplace] on [date of birth] 2013.
2.3.
The parties jointly exercise authority.
2.4.
[minor] has been staying with the mother since the diversion of parties.
2.5.
By decision of this court of 21 August 2019, the decision of 3 February 2016 of this court was amended to that extent:
-
stipulates that the distribution of the care and upbringing tasks between the parents is that the father has [minor] from now on:
-
Once every two weeks from Friday from school to Monday morning to school and;
-
Once every two weeks from Wednesday from school to Friday morning to school;
-
As well as half of the holiday and public holidays to agree in mutual consultation by parties.(...)
3
The request and the defense
3.1.
The father requests - to the court and insofar as it is now relevant - to change the decision of this court of 21 August 2019 and to determine that [minor] will stay with the father throughout the week in the even weeks and in the odd weeks atthe mother.The father is serious about the health of [minor] when he stays with the mother.In addition to [minor], the other children of the mother also stay with her.[minor] has informed the father that he is experiencing problems with these children and also with the mother.By additional request, the father asked to express the supervision of [minor].To substantiate that request, the father has argued that he is serious about the development and safety of [minor], as well as his mental and physical well -being.There is also deviant behavior after accessing moments with the mother.
3.2.
The mother defended himself against the father's request to change the care scheme.With regard to the mother, this change is not in the interest of [minor], due to the poor relationship and communication between the parents.The mother would like parenting mediation, for example in the form of mediation.The mother is open to assistance that is aimed at improving communication, but now that the father is not open to it time and again or is not open to it, the assistance does not get any further.The mother can agree with researching the council.
3.3.The Council has shown to have a lot of worries about [minor], now that there has been no good contact between the parents for a long time.The parents have insufficient trust in each other and therefore [minor] lives in his feelings in two worlds and he does not feel free with his one parent to love the other and vice versa.The Council advised the arrest of the treatment to be able to obtain information from Altra and the parent and child team, both about the final evaluation at Altra and about what is now required in the interest of [minor].
4
The assessment
4.1.
The oral treatment has shown that the implementation of the care scheme is going well.The parents deserve a compliment for that.They are basically able to put the interests of [minor] first.Unfortunately, the parents do not succeed enough in other respects.The communication between the parents has improved for a while since the previous decision and went well at a certain level, but that is no longer the case.There is mistrust and worries with one parent over the other.As long as it cannot be used to sufficiently assistance, those worries cannot be removed or made manageable.It is therefore very unfortunate that the assistance used, which initially went well, went spoke.
4.2.
The parents are unable to agree on the medical condition of [minor], the assistance to be used for him and not about the assistance for the parents themselves.As brought forward by the council, the disturbed relationships and poor communication between his parents are created by [minor] the feeling that he lives in two different worlds.As a result, he does not feel free to have tax -free contact with his both parents and to show one parent that he (also) loves the other parent.That is an undesirable situation that is also potentially dangerous for children.It is not only important that [minor] and his parents get help for that, but also that this help is continued and completed and not being stopped in the meantime.[minor] had a therapist with whom he could talk to his two worlds, but that assistance was stopped because the father no longer wanted to cooperate.That is not in the interest of [minor].The court therefore insists on the parents - and in this case in particular with the father who indicated that he has insufficient faith in the therapist - to have [minor] continue his treatment with the trusted therapist.
4.3.
The court finds it in the interest of [minor] to have the Council investigate the possible threat in the development of [minor] and whether a supervision is needed to take that way.The results of that research may also provide an answer to (part of) the questions and concerns that the parents have.For the assessment of the requests that are still ongoing, it is necessary to await the results of the investigation of the council.
4.4.
That is why the court decides the following.
5
The decision
The court:
- bears the council to carry out a protection investigation;
- stipulates that the further treatment of the requests concerning the joint authority and the final access or care scheme
Pro forma will be continued on July 24, 2023.
At the latest on this date, the Council must inform the court about the results of the protection investigation.After that, the court may order further oral treatment or give the parties the opportunity to make the next step in the procedure they desired;
- stipulates that the clerk will send a copy of this decision to the council for the protection investigation;
- Adjust every further decision.
This decision was given by the right mr. P.B.Martens, also a juvenile court judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of G. Veldman, clerk, on February 23, 2023.
The written elaboration of this decision was established on 1 March 2023.
1
1
Insofar as an appeal is open to the decision, this can be lodged through a lawyer at the Court of Appeal in Amsterdam (IJdok 20 / PO Box 1312, 1000 BH).
The profession must be lodged:
- by the applicant and the person to whom a copy of the decision was provided or sent: within three months of the day of the decision;- by other stakeholders: within three months of the service thereof or after the decision has become known in a different way.