ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2023: 8813
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2023: 8813
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
19-06-2023
Date of publication
04-07-2023
Case
C/09/647645/KG SA 23-390
Jurisdiction
Intellectual
Special characteristics
Summary proceedings
Contents indication
-
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
Team Trade Team
Case number: C/09/647645/KG SA 23-390
Judgment in summary proceedings of 19 June 2023
in the case of
1
[De VOF],
in [place 1],
hereinafter referred to as: the VOF,
2.
[claimant sub 2]
,, "
in [place 1],
hereinafter also mentioned: [claimant sub 2],
3.
[claimant sub 3]
,, "
in [place 1],
hereinafter referred to as: [claimant sub 3],
claiming parties,
hereinafter referred to as: the VOF et al. (Female singular),
lawyer: F. Yildiz in Rijswijk (Zuid-Holland),
in return for
[defendant]
,, "
in [place 2],
defendant,
hereinafter referred to as: [defendant],
Lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam.
1
What is this case about?
1.1.
The VOF has a chain of hairdressing shops.These hairdressing shops are mainly located in the north of the Netherlands.At the moment, the VOF has sixteen hair salons that are operated under the name 'Kapsalon Promise'.The VOF is a holder of a Benelux image brand, in which the words 'Kapsalon Promise' appear.[Defendant] has had a hairdressing store in [place 2] since 2020, first with the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise' and since 2021 with the trade name 'Hairstudio Promise'.According to the VOF et al. By using a trade name for her hair salon, with the word 'promise' infringes the trademark rights of the VOF and at least on her trade name law.That is why the VOF et al. The judge in summary judge has asked in this case (also: the preliminary relief judge) to prohibit [defendant] to use such a trade name.The VOF et al. Furthermore, asks for allocation of an amount of € 10,000 as an advance on the damage suffered by VOF et al.
1.2.
In this judgment, the preliminary relief judge decides that [defendant] should stop using a trade name containing the word 'promise' for the services for which the Benelux image brand of the VOF is registered, including hair salons.[defendant] must therefore stop using the name 'Hairstudio Promise' for her hair salon.The claim of the VOF et al. That relates to the advance on compensation is rejected because the VOF et al. Has not sufficiently clear that it has suffered damage as a result of the use of this trade name by [defendant].These decisions are for the time being because this is a summary proceedings;A short procedure for a situation that is urgent.The decisions are intended to determine what should be done in the period after the judgment, until another judge (the soil judge) has assessed the case in full procedure.The VOF et al. Must start a procedure at the soil judge within six months of this judgment.If she does not, it can lose her strength imposed on [defendant].
1.3.
The preliminary relief judge explains below how and why he came to this judgment.Under 'the procedure' is listed what the course of the procedure has been.Subsequently, under 'the facts' what the parties agree on and what is certain that between them happened in the run -up to this procedure.The preliminary relief judge assumes those facts in his assessment of this case.Then 'the dispute' shows what the progress of the VOF et al. And why it believes she is entitled to the allocation.Ultimately, the preliminary relief judge under 'the assessment' explains his opinion on the claims.Finally, the decisions that follow are shown together under 'the decision'.
2
The procedure
2.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
- the summons of 26 May 2023, with productions 1-4;and
- The conclusion of answer, with productions 1-7.
2.2.
The oral hearing of the case took place on 5 June 2023. In doing so, [the claimant sub 2], assisted by mr. Yildiz, were published, and [defendant], assisted by Mr. Hashem Jawaheri aforementioned.During the oral hearing, the VOF et al. Objected against the late submission of the conclusion of answer with productions by [defendant].In response to this objection, the preliminary relief judge decided that only the conclusion of answer and productions 1, 3 and 5 belong to the process file.
2.3.
During the oral treatment, the parties explained their views and answered questions from the preliminary relief judge.The clerk has made session notes that have been added to the clerk file.Finally, a date for judgment has been determined.
3
The facts
3.1.The VOF has a chain of hairdressing shops.These hairdressing shops are mainly located in the north of the Netherlands.The VOF was founded on 1 June 2008. Since that date, it has been registered with the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise' in the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce.At the moment, the VOF has sixteen hair salons that are operated under the name 'Kapsalon Promise'.
3.2.
[claimant sub 2] and [claimant sub 3] are the partners of the VOF.They are also brothers of each other.
3.3.
The VOF is the holder of the Benelux image brand registered below on 5 May 2016 under number 990954 with word elements, for goods and services in class 3, 35 and 44, including services of Kapsalons (hereinafter: the brand):
3.4.
Since 2020, [defendant] has had a hairdressing store at [address 1] in [place 2].
3.5.
[Defendant] took over this hairdressing store on 5 March 2020 from [name] (hereinafter: [name]).For the acquisition, [name] drove the barber shop under the name 'Kapsalon Promise' and had been given permission from the VOF et al.
3.6.
After the acquisition, [defendant] started to use the name 'Kapsalon Promise' for her barber shop.
3.7.
On November 2, 2020, [name] opened a hair salon at [address 2] in [place 2] under the name 'Kapsalon Promise 1'.
3.8.
Subsequently, a dispute arose between [defendant] and [name] about the use by [name] of the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise 1'.This dispute has led to summary proceedings, brought by [defendant], in which the preliminary relief judge by judgment of 20 July 2021 (ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2021: 7619) [name], on penalty of forfeiting a penalty, has forbidden toWith effect from fourteen days after service of the judgment, to make use of the Trade Salon Promise trade name (with or without the addition of the figure 1).The VOF et al. Was not a party in this summary proceedings.
3.9.
Also in 2021 [defendant] changed the name of her hair salon to 'Hairstudio Promise'.A photo of the facade of the [defendant] hair salon after the name change is shown below.The designation 'Kapsalon Promise', visible in the photo on the window to the right next to the door of the hair salon, has since been removed.
3.10.
In the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce, [defendant] is now still registered as the owner of a company named 'Kapsalon Promise'.
3.11.
On August 17, 2022, the lawyer of VOF et al. [Defendant] ordered by e-mail to stop and stop the trading law of the VOF.
3.12.
On 8 September 2022, this e-mail was responded to on behalf of [defendant].[Defendant] has indicated that she changed the trade name of her hair salon a year ago and took the position that the VOF therefore no longer has an interest in enforcing its trademark law.
4
The dispute
4.1.
The VOF et al. Advises that the preliminary relief judge by judgment, enforceable in stock:
I. [defendant] ordered to use the use of the trade name 'Hair Salon Promise', 'Hairsalon Promise' or any other combination in which the name 'Promise' and the judge's judge) and the logo understands within 7 days of service of the judgment.to stop and stop it;
Ii.[Defendant] orders payment of an immediate due penalty of € 10,000 per day that [defendant] acts contrary to the aforementioned prohibition;
III.[defendant] orders to pay an amount of € 10,000 as an advance on the damage suffered by VOF et al.
Iv.[Defendant] orders in the full proceedings in accordance with Article 1019h of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure
1
.
4.2.
The VOF et al. List the following on the claims.Primary, the VOF et al. Relates to brand infringement.She states that, by using a trade name for her hairdressing business with the word 'promise', [defendant] causes a danger of confusion in the public.The VOF et al. Is therefore entitled to prevent [defendant] from using such a trade name on the basis of Article 2.20 paragraph 2 sub b BVIE
2
.In the alternative, VOF et al. Surcharge that [defendant] acts contrary to Article 5 HNW
3
By using a trade name as intended above for its hairdressing store.By using the trade name, [defendant] now attracts more than a year of unjustified benefits from the reputation built under the brand name and trade name, despite the summons to stop the infringing action.[defendant] must therefore pay the profit she made in the period that she operated her hair salon under the trading name law of the VOF infringing trade name, as compensation to the VOF et al.Allocation of an advance of € 10,000 to VOF et al. Is justified under these circumstances.
4.3.[defendant] defends.[Defendant] concludes for the inadmissible declaration of the VOF et al. In its claims or rejection thereof, with enforceable in stock, to be declared in stock order of the VOF et al. In the full costs of the proceedings in accordance with Article 1019h of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure for an amount of € 8,000 excluding VAT.
4.4.
The views of the parties are discussed below, insofar as relevant.
5
The assessment
Competence
5.1.
On the basis of Article 4.6 (1) of BVIE, the preliminary relief judge is internationally and relatively competent to take cognizance of the claims based on trademark law because [defendant] lives in [place 2].With regard to the trade name of the VOF et al.
Rectification as the claimant sub 2
5.2.
In the head of the summons, when the parties involved in this case, the plaintiff sub 2 [X] is mentioned.At the hearing, the VOF et al. Lawyer stated that this is based on a mistake, now that the name of the claimant sub 2 is not [X], but [claimant sub 2].The VOF et al. Requests the preliminary relief judge to regard rectification of this incorrect party indication by not [X], but [claimant sub 2], as the claimant sub 2 in these procedure.
5.3.
The preliminary relief judge allows this request.It follows from case law of the Supreme Court that the rectification of an initially incorrect party designation is an acceptable means to repair a mistake made when (a) it was known for the other party that there was a mistake, (b) the other partyDue to the mistake and the rectification, it was not disadvantaged or damaged in its defense, and (c) the rectification has taken place in time.
4
In the opinion of the preliminary relief judge, these terms and conditions have been met, now that the VOF et al. The request for rectification at the hearing and thus made time, [defendant] has not opposed the request and, incidentally, it cannot be seen that [defendant] by the mistake and/or the rectification is/is disadvantaged or is/is/will be harmed in its defense.The preliminary relief judge will therefore allow the requested rectification.This decision has already been expressed in the head of the judgment.
Urgent interest
5.4.
This procedure involves a provisional provision advanced in summary proceedings.The preliminary relief judge must therefore first assess whether the VOF et al. Has an urgent interest in the requested provision.
5.5.
The question of whether a claimant has a sufficient urgent interest in the requested provision in summary proceedings must be answered on the basis of a assessment of the interests of the parties, assessed according to the situation at the time of the ruling.The starting point is that the urgent interest is in principle given as long as the stated infringement or the stated unlawful action continues.However, if, however, has not been sufficiently performed against this, this may be an indication that the interest of the claimant apparently does not require a provisional measure.This depends on the circumstances of the case.
5.6.
The VOF et al. States that it has an urgent interest in its claims because the infringement of its intellectual property rights continues.Although the VOF et al. Recognizes that there has been some delay in the establishment of this summary proceedings, it can be explained according to VOF et al. By the poor medical condition of [claimant sub 3], which last year as a result of an accident threeweeks in coma.As a result, the priorities of the VOF et al. Laying in the recovery of [claimant sub 3].In addition, the VOF et al. Wanted to wait for the outcome of the procedure between [defendant] and [name], according to the VOF et al.
5.7.
[Defendant] disputes the urgent interest of the VOF et al. With its claims, among other things because [defendant] has not used the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise' for two years.[defendant] has already informed the VOF of this, according to [defendant], on 8 September 2022.According to [defendant], the fact that the VOF et al. Did not start summary proceedings immediately after that it has no urgent interest.Moreover, [defendant] disputes, in view of the lack of substantiation of that statement, that [the claimant sub 3] was in a coma and that the VOF et al. Was therefore unable to make this summary proceedings earned earlier.
5.8.The preliminary relief judge is of the opinion that the VOF et al. Has sufficient urgent interest in its claims.For this purpose, decisive is the constant infringement of its intellectual property rights set by VOF et al.Contrary to what [defendant] has argued, the mere fact that [defendant] has changed the trade name of her hairdresser's case from 'Kapsalon Promise' to 'Hairstudio Promise' in the provisional judgment of the preliminary relief judge not that of an infringement of the intellectual property rights of theVOF et al. Can no longer be there.After all, an infringement of the intellectual property rights of the VOF et al. Can also exist, and that is also what the VOF et al. Seals, from the use of a sign or trade name by [defendant] that/which is not identical to the brand or trade name ofthe VOF et al., But corresponds to that.Furthermore, the fact that VOF et al. Not immediately after receiving the response from [defendant] dated 8 September 2022 on its e-mail of 17 August 2022, a summary proceedings did not mean, in the opinion of the preliminary relief judge that the importance ofThe VOF et al. Does not require a provisional measure.The VOF et al. Has stated the course of time on non -unreasonable grounds by pointing to the other priorities of the VOF et al. As a result of the medical condition of [the claimant sub 3] and the fact that the VOF et al. First the outcome of the procedure between[defendant] and [name] wanted to wait.The preliminary relief judge has also taken into account that he has no reason to doubt the statements of the VOF et al. About the medical condition of [the claimant sub 3].Although the VOF et al. Did not substantiate this statement with medical documents, this could not be expected from it in the light of circumstances, including the circumstance that [defendant] did not expect that statement for the first time at the hearing.
Interest
5.9.
[defendant] also argues that the VOF et al. HAVE no interest in its claims as referred to in Section 3: 303 of the Dutch Civil Code
5
, in which article has been laid down that no one claims a legal claim without sufficient interest.This is also based on [defendant] that [defendant] has not been using the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise' for two years.
5.10.
The preliminary relief judge rejects this defense.As considered above in 5.8, the name means of her hair salon to 'Hairstudio Promise' carried out by [defendant] does not mean that there can no longer be a violation of the intellectual property rights of the VOF et al.The preliminary relief judge has therefore not been proven that the VOF et al. Has no interest in its claims.
Abuse of authority
5.11.
[Defendant] also takes the position that the VOF et al. Make abuse of authority as referred to in Section 3:13 of the Dutch Civil Code by starting this summary proceedings.She substantiates this statement by pointing out the long time between the takeover of the hair salon by [defendant] and the tightening of these summary proceedings, namely more than three years.
5.12.
The preliminary relief judge judges as follows.There is an abuse of authority on the basis of Section 3:13 of the Dutch Civil Code, among other things, if a power is abused by exercising it with no other purpose than to harm another or for a purpose other than for which it was granted or in the event of one, in case, one,taking into account the disproportionality between the interest in the exercise and the interest that is harmed as a reasonableness could not have come to that exercise (Section 3:13 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code).These situations do not occur here, at least [defendant] does not say that.This defense therefore does not succeed.
Trading infringement
5.13.
This brings the preliminary relief judge to the brand infringement set by VOF et al.
5.14.
[defendant] disputes that there is a brand infringement.Firstly, because, as she argues, the VOF et al., Implicitly, via [name], has given permission for the use of the brand as a trade name.Secondly, because, according to [defendant], by changing the name 'Kapsalon Promise' to 'Hairstudio Promise', there is no longer a risk of confusion."Promise" is also, according to [defendant], a general word that lacks distinctive character.In addition, the hairdressing shops of the VOF are mainly in the north of the country and not in [place 2], according to [defendant].
Claim under i.;parent brand, younger trade name
5.15.
When assessing the claims of the VOF on the basis of brand infringement, the preliminary relief judge puts the following first:
-i) The preliminary relief judge finds that the VOF et al. In its claim under I. the old trade name of [defendant], namely 'Kapsalon Promise', has included as well as a trade name that [defendant] does not use at all, namely 'HairsalonPromise (instead of 'Hairstudio Promise').However, she has also claimed [defendant] to prohibit the use of any other combination with the name 'Promise'.Partly in the light of the statements of the VOF et al. At the hearing, the preliminary relief judge understands the claim of the VOF et al. Under I. so that the VOF et al. Prohibitions for [defendant] of the use of a trade name in which the word 'promise'Prevents the services for which the VOF brand is registered, including hair salons.This also includes the trade name 'Hairstudio Promise';
-
ii) The preliminary relief judge also understands the positions of the VOF et al. In such a way that the sign against which the VOF et al. Coures the current trade name of the hair salon of [defendant], namely 'Hairstudio Promise' (hereinafter also: the sign).The VOF et al. Has argued that [defendant] also uses the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise', because its company is still registered with that name in the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce.[Defendant] has submitted that although she has forgotten to implement the name change in the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce, she no longer carries the trade name 'Kapsalon Promise'.Pursuant to Article 1 of the HNW, the name under which the company is actually driven is not (without a doubt) the trade register registration for infringing use.The preliminary relief judge has not been proven for the time being that [defendant] also actually floats under the name 'Kapsalon Promise'.It is also important in this context that [defendant] has stated without being contradicted that the designation 'Kapsalon Promise', which can still be seen on the window to the right the door of the hair salon on the photo shown in 3.9, has since been removed;
-
iii) It is not in dispute between the parties that the VOF registered its brand in 2016 and that [defendant] has been carrying the trade name 'Hairstudio Promise' since 2021.As a result, there is a situation that a parent registered brand is acting against a younger trade name.
5.16.
Pursuant to Article 2.20 (3) (d) of BVIE in conjunction with Article 2.20 (2) (b) BVIE, the brand holder can prohibit the use of a sign that is corresponding to the brand as (part of a) trade name, as the services for which that sign and thebrand are used, corresponding.
5.17.
For the application of Article 2.20 (3) (d) of BVIE, it is required that the trade name is used in such a way that a link is created between that name and, insofar as relevant here, the services that the alleged infringer performed.
6
In the provisional judgment of the preliminary relief judge, this requirement has been met in the present circumstances;After all, there is a connection between the trade name of [defendant] ('Hairstudio' Promise) and the services that [defendant] performs (hairdressing services).Parties have not argued otherwise.
Permission from the VOF
5.18.
The most far -reaching defense of [defendant] against the stated brand infringement is that she has received permission from VOF et al. For the use of its trade name.After all, if this defense succeeds, the VOF et al. Can not prevent the use of that trade name by [defendant] by appeal to Article 2.20 (2) (b) of BVIE in conjunction with Article 2.20 paragraph 3 sub d BVIE.
5.19.
The VOF et al. Has disputed the statement of [defendant] that permission has been granted with reasons.On the other hand, [defendant] has not substantiated a substantiation for her statement.This had been on her way, now that she relies on the legal consequences thereof (see Article 150 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure).The preliminary relief judge therefore ignores this defense of [defendant] as insufficiently substantiated.
Article 2.20 paragraph 2 sub b BVIE in conjunction with Article 2.20 paragraph 3 sub d BVIE
5.20.This will make a substantive assessment of the appeal of the VOF et al. On Article 2.20 paragraph 2 sub BVIE in conjunction with Article 2.20 paragraph 3 sub d BVIE.There is an infringement as referred to in Article 2.20 (2) (b) of BVIE if [defendant] used an equal or corresponding sign for the same or corresponding or services if the brand is registered if there is a risk of confusion with the public.According to established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the existence of the risk of confusion must be globally assessed on the basis of the total impression that arouses the brand and the sign to the relevant public.All relevant circumstances of the specific case must be taken into account, in particular the degree of agreement between the brand and the sign, the (degree of) agreement of the were or services and the distinctive character of the brand.The degree of agreement between brand and sign is determined on the basis of a visual, auditory and conceptual comparison, in particular the distinctive and dominating components must be taken into account.This global assessment of the risk of confusing assumes a certain mutual coherence between the factors to be taken into account and in particular the agreement of the conflicting signs or similarity of the wares or services to which they relate.For example, a small degree of similarity of the goods involved or services can be compensated by a high degree of conformity of the signs, and vice versa.
7
The relevant audience
5.21.
With regard to the relevant public, the preliminary relief judge assumes the average buyer of the services involved, namely hairdressing services.This is an audience with an average level of attention in the field of (trade names or brands of) hairdressing affairs.
Agreement between brand and sign
5.22.
In the preliminary judgment of the preliminary relief judge, the word element 'Kapsalon Promise' in the VOF brand is the dominating and distinctive component;The image with the two heads forms a more secondary decorative element.Of the word elements occurring in the logo, the word 'promise' is also distinctive and dominating;After all, the word 'hair salon' is descriptive;It indicates the services of the VOF, namely hair salons.
5.23.
Furthermore, the preliminary relief judge is of the opinion that in the trade name that [defendant] uses for its company, the word 'promise' is also the distinctive and dominating component.The word 'Hairstudio' - literally in Dutch: 'Haarstudio' - is descriptive and serves to indicate the services of the company of [defendant], namely a hair salon.
5.24.
Given that (i) exactly the same word, namely the word 'promise', occurs in both the brand of the VOF and the sign of [defendant] and (ii) this word in both the brand and the sign is dominant tenCompared to a prior descriptive word ('Kapsalon' on the one hand and 'hairstudio' on the other), according to the preliminary relief judge there is a high degree of (visual, auditory and conceptual) agreement between the brand and the sign.
In accordance with the services
5.25.
Compared to the services for which the brand is registered and the services for which [defendant] uses the sign.The VOF has registered its brand for, among other things, services of Kapsalons.[defendant] also uses the sign for a hair salon.The services of the VOF and the services of [defendant] are therefore the same within the meaning of Article 2.20 paragraph 2 sub b BVIE.This is also not in dispute between the parties.
Distinctiveness
5.26.
Contrary to what [defendant] argues, the preliminary relief judge is for the time being that the words 'Kapsalon Promise' in the brand have sufficient distinctive character for, relevant in this case, the services for which it is registered.The word 'hair salon' is indeed descriptive for the services for which it is used (see above), but the word 'promise' is not;After all, there is no direct and/or specific connection between that word - the English word for 'promise' - and hairdressing services.[Defendant] also did not explain that would consist of this connection.
5.27.
In the opinion of the preliminary relief judge, the VOF brand, partly in view of the image elements that are also part of it, is affecting an average distinctive character.
Confusion hazard
5.28.In the provisional judgment of the preliminary relief judge, the use by [defendant] of her trade name can cause a risk of confusion with the public.Decisive for this judgment is the combination of (i) the high degree of agreement between the brand and the sign, (ii) the similarity of the services of the VOF et al. And the company of [defendant] and (iii) the distinctive character ofthe brand.In the global assessment of the risk of confusing, this (the hairdressing made by [defendant]) compensates that the hairdressing shops of the VOF et al., Which are mainly located in the north of the Netherlands, are located at a great distance from the hairdresser's shop of [defendant], thatis located in [place 2].
Conclusion
5.29.
The conclusion of the foregoing is that [defendant] infringes the brand of the VOF within the meaning of Article 2.20 (2) (b) of BVIE in conjunction with Article 2.20 paragraph 3 sub d BVIE.The preliminary relief judge will therefore allocate the claim under I., in the sense that he will order [defendant] to use the use of a trade name within 7 days after the award of the judgment with the word 'promise' for the services for which the Benelux-logo of the VOF is registered, namely the services in class 44, to stop and keep it stopped.This prohibition applies to the Benelux countries, now that the brand is a Benelux brand.[Defendant] must therefore stop using the name 'Hairstudio Promise' for her hair salon.
Penalty
5.30.
The preliminary relief judge considers a penalty to be necessary as an incentive for fulfillment.However, the demanded penalty (the claim under II.) Will be limited to € 1,000 per day and to the total of penalty payments a maximum of € 30,000 will be attached.
Compensation
5.31.
The VOF et al. Furthermore, claims conviction of [defendant] to pay an amount of € 10,000 as an advance on the damage suffered by VOF et al.This claim thus aims to pay a sum of money.To allocate such a claim in summary proceedings, only if the existence and extent of the claim are highly plausible, while an immediate provision is also required by virtue of immediately and the risk of inability of reimbursement -consideration of the interests of parties - not standing in the way of allocation.
5.32.
In the present case, the existence and size of the claim has not (largely) become plausible.The VOF et al. Has not substantiated the statement that it has suffered damage as a result of the use of the trade name of the company of [defendant] (to the amount claimed as an advance).The claim under III.will therefore be rejected for this reason.
Commercial
5.33.
In view of the foregoing, the preliminary relief judge no longer needs a handling of the subsidiary basis for the claims of the VOF et al. On the basis of Article 5 of the HNW.
Proceedings
5.34.
[Defendant] is the party that is wrong and she will therefore be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings.The VOF et al. ALSO claims reimbursement of its full litigation costs as referred to in Article 1019h of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.However, she has not submitted any specification of her attorney costs.Without such a specification, the preliminary relief judge will not be able to pronounce a proceedings order on the basis of Article 1019h of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.The claim based on that article from the VOF et al. Will thus be rejected.The preliminary relief judge will budget the costs of the VOF et al. At the Salary Lawyer in accordance with the Recommendation Rates for Canton Affairs and Commercial Affairs on 1 February 2023. In the opinion of the preliminary relief judge, the present case falls under the Easy Code category.This includes a rate of € 697.
5.35.
Until this judgment, the costs of the proceedings on the part of the VOF et al. Are determined as follows:
- Costs of the summons
€
106.73
- court fee
€
676.00
- Salary lawyer
€
697.00
Total
€
1,479.73
Term Article 1019i of the Code of Civil Procedure
5.36.
The preliminary relief judge will determine the period for setting a requirement in the main proceedings as referred to in Article 1019i of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure on six months after today.
6
The decision
The preliminary relief judge
6.1.
ordered [defendant] to use the use of a trade name within 7 days after the award of the judgment containing the word 'Promise' for the services for which the Benelux image brand of the VOF is registered, to know services in class 44, in the Benelux-Landen to strike and keep it stopped;
6.2.
orders [defendant] to pay a penalty of € 1,000.00 to VOF et al. For each day or part thereof that it does not meet the conviction given in 6.1, up to a maximum of € 30,000.00,
6.3.
orders [defendant] to pay the costs of the proceedings, on the part of the VOF et al. Up to this judgment set at € 1,479.73,
6.4.
explains the convictions given in 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 in stock,6.5.
rejects it more or otherwise advanced.
This judgment was given by J.B.J.Hoefnagel and pronounced in public on 19 June 2023.
1
Code of Civil Procedure
2
Benelux Convention on Intellectual Property
3
Commercial
4
HR December 14, 2007, ECLI: NL: HR: 2007: BB4765, r.o.3.4.
5
Civil Code
6
ECJ 11 September 2007, C-17/06, ECLI: EU: C: 2007: 497 (Céline), r.o.23
7
ECJ 4 March 2020, C 328/18 p, ECLI: EU: C: 2020: 156 (EUIPO / Equivalenza Manufactory) and the case law mentioned therein.