ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 150
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 150
Instance
Rotterdam District Court
Date of judgment
12-01-2022
Date of publication
13-01-2022
Case
C/10/619648/HA SA 21-492
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Competence incident.Matrimonial property law.International competence.Applicability of the Marriage Control Sters' Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/1103).Jurisdiction Dutch court because the request for divorce (pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, under a, first line), of Regulation (EC) 2201/2003, "Brussels-II bis")) has been brought to the Dutch court.Relative authority.Choice in covenant for the competent judge in Amsterdam.Reference of the case to the Amsterdam District Court on the basis of Article 110, paragraph 2, of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Rotterdam District Court
Team Handel and Haven
Case number / Role number: C / 10/619648 / HA SA 21-492
Judgment in incident of January 12, 2022
in the case of
[name of plaintiff]
,, "
residing in [residence plaintiff],
Plaintiff in the main proceedings,
defendant in the main proceedings,
defendant in the incident,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
[name of defendant]
,, "
residing in [residence of the defendant],
defendant in the main proceedings,
plaintiff in the counterclaim,
Plaintiff in the incident,
Lawyer H. Polat in The Hague.
The parties will hereinafter be referred to as the woman ([name of plaintiff]) and the man ([name of defendant]).
1.
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the summons of 25 May 2021 with five productions;
-
the (defendant not announced by the defendant) incidental conclusion of relative disadvantage, also a conclusion of an answer in the convention, also the conclusion of the counterclaim, with two productions;
-
the (plaintiff not announced as such) conclusion of answer in the incident, also conclusion of answer in the counterclaim, with two productions;
-
the letter from the clerk of 2 November 2021 in which the parties were called for an oral hearing on December 16, 2021;and
-
The official report of the oral treatment held on December 16, 2021 in which the woman participated via a telephone connection.
1.2.
Finally, judgment was determined in the incident.
2.
The dispute in the main issue
2.1.
The woman claims that the court, as far as possible, enforceable in stock, the court will determine that the man will take care of the dismissal of the dismissal of the dismissal of the dismissal of thewoman from the joint and several liability for the mortgage loan taken out in connection with the purchase of the former marital home of the parties, on pain of forfeiting a penalty of € 250 for each day that the man fails to do that, with hisconviction in the costs of the proceedings and follow -up costs, plus the statutory interest from fourteen days after the date of the judgment to be considered to the
Day of general satisfaction.The woman bases her claim on the agreements between parties as laid down in the divorce agreement signed by them on 15 June 2020 (hereinafter: the covenant).
2.2.
The man makes a substantiated defense in the convention and claims in the counterclaim that the court will condemn the woman in the costs of the proceedings and, if the court concludes that the woman's claim will be granted, to determine that a manTerm of six months will be granted, or such a period if the court considers correct, for regulating the dismissal from the joint and several liability of the woman.
2.3.
The woman contains a motivated defense in the counterclaim.
3.
The dispute in the incident
3.1.
The man is claiming - before all weren - that the woman will be declared inadmissible in her claim.The man based this on the basis that the court is not authorized to take cognizance of the dispute because it has been stipulated in the covenant that all disputes will be submitted to the competent court in Amsterdam as a result of the covenant in the first instance.The man stated at the hearing to agree to referring the case to the Amsterdam District Court.
3.2.
The woman defends the claimed inadmissible.The woman stated at the hearing to agree to referring the case to the Amsterdam District Court.
4.
The assessment in the incident
4.1.Because the woman and the man in Iran have married, the first question to be answered is whether the Dutch court has jurisdiction.This question must be answered on the basis of the Marriage Control Sters' Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/1103) because the claim was lodged after January 29, 2019.Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 1 of the Marriage Convention Regulation, the Dutch court is competent because the request for divorce (pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, under a, first line), of Regulation (EC) 2201/2003, "Brussels-II BIS"))was brought to the Dutch court.The Dutch court therefore has jurisdiction.
4.2.
The second question to be answered is which judge is relatively competent.The woman bases her claim on the covenant.The parties have agreed that disputes that arise as a result of the covenant will be submitted exclusively to the competent court in Amsterdam.The present dispute is a dispute as a result of the covenant, so the Amsterdam District Court is exclusively authorized to take cognizance of the dispute.The parties stated at the hearing to agree to referring the case to the Amsterdam District Court.
4.3.
In view of the foregoing, the court will declare itself unauthorized and the case, pursuant to the provisions of Article 110, paragraph 2, of the Code of Civil Procedure, in the state in which it is located to the Amsterdam District Court, Trade sector.
4.4.
In view of the relationship between the parties, the costs between them will be compensated, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
5.
The decision
The court
in the incident
5.1.
declares to take note of the claim in the main proceedings;
5.2.
compensates for the costs of the incident between the parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs;
in the main thing
5.3.
refers the case in the state in which it is located to the Amsterdam District Court, Sector Trade;
5.4.
The parties points out that for continuation of the procedure it is that one of the parties calls on the other party by Exploot against a new role date (Article 74 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure).
This verdict was given by W.A.M.Schellekens.It was signed by the roller judge and pronounced in public on January 12, 2022.
2632/3310/638