ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2022: 700
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2022: 700
Instance
Court of Appeal The Hague
Date of judgment
15-03-2022
Date of publication
28-04-2022
Case
200.297.363/01
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
IPR;claim for payment of deferred bridal gift.The same claim was previously brought to the Iranian court.Litisendentie?Art.12 RV does not apply when litisendentie occurs in the proportion to a foreign state with which the Netherlands has no - bilateral or multilateral - execution agreement.The fact that the foreign decision via recognition on the basis of HR 26 September 2014 (Gazprombank) can lead to a Dutch enforceable title is insufficient for the application of art.12 Rv.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Pfr-updates.nl 2022-0109
RFR 2022/100
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of Appeal The Hague
Civilian
Case number: 200.297.363/01
Case/roll number Court: C/10/601329/HA SA 20-734
Judgment in Incident of 15 March 2022
regarding
[appellant],
residing in [residence],
appellant,
hereinafter referred to as: the woman,
Lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam
in return for
[respondent],
residing in [residence],
The respondent,
hereinafter referred to as: the man,
Lawyer: A. Apistola in Zwijndrecht
Proceedings
By exploitation of 13 July 2021, the woman appealed of the judgment in the incident of 14 April 2021 of the Rotterdam District Court, pointed out between the woman as the plaintiff in the main issue/ defendant in the incident and the man as a defendant in the main proceedings/Plaintiff in the incident (further: the contested judgment).
Before the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to page 1 of the contested judgment and page 1 of the interlocutory in the incident of 2 December 2020.
The apple summons contains the complaints of the woman against the contested judgment.
In response, the man contradicted these complaints.
The man has found his process file, after which judgment was determined to date.
Assessment of the appeal
Facts
1. The Court is based on the following facts.On [date] 2016, parties were married to each other in [place], Iran.In the - English translation of the - Iranian marriage certificate, the parties have made the following agreements about the bridal gift that the man owes to the woman: "
One Volume of the Holy Koran and a Branch of Nabat (Candy) Gifted for RLS.200,000 submitted to the wife and 514 gold coins (full bahar Azadi) which is the Husband’s Liability and Payable Upon the Wife’s Demand.
"The man's obligation to pay Gold Coins to the woman 514 Bahar Azadi will then indicate the court as: the deferred bridal gift.
2. A divorce procedure was pending at the Rotterdam District Court, in which the woman has requested, among other things, to condemn the man to pay the deferred bridal gift to her.During the oral treatment of the divorce procedure on 3 July 2020, both parties withdrew their requests, which ended this divorce procedure.
3. The woman has claimed at the court in [place], Iran, that the man is ordered to pay the deferred bridal gift.By decision of 16 June 2019, the Iranian court granted this claim of the woman.
4. In the present procedure, the woman, in short, claims that the man is ordered to pay the deferred bridal gift or an equivalent that is equal to
€ 433,995.90.
5. By decision of 10 August 2021, the Rotterdam District Court rejected the woman's request to leave the Iranian decision of 16 June 2019 in the Netherlands at the expense of the man.
The procedure at first instance
6. In the first instance, the man invoked the co -authority of the Dutch court in time.In the interlocutory judgment in Incident of 2 December 2020, the court decided as follows:
4.11
For the time being, the court sees insufficient reason to declare itself unauthorized within the meaning of Article 12 DCCP.The case will be referred to the role of, first of all, the man, to give the opportunity to express themselves motivated whether the family court in [place] has already taken a decision on the basis of which the Rotterdam District Court has taken itself pursuant to Article 12must declare.The case will be arrested for the time being.
7. In the final judgment in the incident of 14 April 2021 - the contested judgment - the court decided as follows:
in the incident
3.1.
allocates the man's claim;
3.2.
declares to take note of the claim of the woman;
3.3.
it determines that the man and the woman each bear their own litigation costs.
Appeal8. The woman appealed in time of the final judgment of 14 April 2021. The woman claims that the Court of Appeal announces the contested judgment and, in the judgment, still orders the man to pay the deferred bridal gift and - in short - inthe costs of both authorities.
9. The man concludes that the Court of Appeal rejects the claim of the woman or declares the woman inadmissible.In the event of annulment of the contested judgment, the man claims that the case will be referred to the court or that the proceedings are retained pending the ruling of the Iranian court.Furthermore, the man claims that the woman is being convicted - in short - in the costs of both authorities.
Core of the dispute
10. The core of the dispute between the parties concerns the payment of the deferred bridal gift of 514 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins.The woman claims that the man is being convicted of paying this delayed bridal gift to her on the basis of the agreements they made about it in the Iranian marriage certificate.The man takes the position that the Dutch court is unauthorized to take cognizance of the case, because the woman has brought the same claim to the Iranian court at an earlier moment.In the contested judgment, the court has declared itself unauthorized to take cognizance of the woman's claim.
11. Appeal is about the explanation of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure.This provision is, insofar as relevant, as follows:
If a case has been brought before a judge of a foreign state and a decision can be given in it that is susceptible to recognition and, where appropriate, for enforcement in the Netherlands, the Dutch court can be with whom a case between the same parties can subsequently about the sameThe subject has been applied, the treatment continued until it has been decided by the first -intentioned court.If that decision for recognition and, where appropriate, turns out to be susceptible to enforcement in the Netherlands, the Dutch court declares itself unauthorized.
12. The key question that is on appeal is (i) or in the present case there is a situation of
litis pendency
In the meaning of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure and, if so, (ii) when a foreign decision for recognition and, where appropriate, execution in the Netherlands turns out to be susceptible, as referred to in the second sentence of Article 12 DCCP.
Grievances
13. The woman formulates various complaints against the unauthorized opinion of the court.
14. To begin with, the woman argues that the requirement in Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure that a foreign decision for recognition and enforcement in the Netherlands appears to be prone, can only be paid if the foreign decision on the basis of a treaty in the Netherlands is prone toRecognition and enforcement.Now that this is not the case in this case, the decision of the Iranian court cannot be enforced directly in the Netherlands.According to the woman, this means that Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure does not stand in the way of a substantive handling of the woman's claim by the Dutch court (Appeldtagen, no. 2.1).
15. In the event that the aforementioned requirement in Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure is also met when the foreign decision has been based on an enforceable executorial title obtained on the basis of HR 26 September 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 2838 in the Netherlands,The woman argues: (i) that the decision of the Iranian court of 16 June 2019 does not relate to the bridal gift, but only relates to the divorce between parties, (ii) that the man has failed to have a sworn translation of this Iranian decision intoto make the proceedings, and (iii) that this Iranian decision was given in proceedings for default (apple summons, nrs. 2.2 to 2.4).
16. Finally, the woman argues that after the contested judgment she asked for leave in a separate procedure at the Rotterdam District Court to enforce the Iranian decision in the Netherlands.According to the woman, the man took the position in that procedure that the Iranian decision is not susceptible to enforcement in the Netherlands (Appeldtagen, nrs. 2.5-2.6).
17. The man has motivated these complaints with reasons.According to the man, the court has rightly declared itself unauthorized on the basis of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.
Judgment of the Court
Litisendentie?
18. To begin with, the question arises whether there is a situation of
litis pendencyIn the sense of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure.It is established before the Court of Appeal that the woman's claim in the present proceedings and in the Iranian procedure that led to the decision of 16 June 2019 concerns the same subject, namely the conviction of the man for payment of the delayed bridal gift.This does not only follow from the Dutch translation of the Iranian decision ("" "" "was destroyed by the man ("
condemns the defendant (...) to pay the bridal gift of five hundred and fourteen Golden Bahar Azadi coins to the claimant
"), But is also explicitly recognized by the woman in her conclusion of the answer in the incident, under no. 2.4 ("
The woman acknowledges (...) that she started a procedure in Iran, and has requested, among other things, for compensation for a bridal gift
") As well as in its petition, under no. 3, of 7 May 2021 for the granting of leave for enforcement of the Iranian decision ("
In the aforementioned judgment, the man was sentenced to the woman 514 Bahar Azadi coins, or in euros an amount of EUR 433,995.90 [to be paid]
").It is also important that the Iranian court in the decision of 16 June 2019 - implicitly - adopted jurisdiction to take cognizance of the woman's claim, and that the Dutch court in the main proceedings is also competent with regard to the claim of theWoman based on the residence of the defendant - the man - in the Netherlands (Article 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure).It is also established between the parties that the woman has brought the Iranian procedure at an earlier moment than the present proceedings in the Dutch court.
19. Unlike the court, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the above does not lead to a situation of
litis pendency
In the meaning of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, because it was established that at the time of the introduction of the present proceedings - by introducing summons of 21 July 2020 - the Iranian court had already decided on 16 June 2019 on the woman's claimWith regard to the deferred bridal gift and this decision, moreover, had become irrevocable.In this context, the Court of Appeal refers to the statement of the man in his deed in incident dated 13 January 2021, no. 2, that he has made this Iranian decision "no opposition or appeal".This statement has remained undisputed by the woman.This means that at the time of the - contested - final judgment of 14 April 2021 of the court there was no question of
litis pendency
, because the Iranian procedure was no longer pending and had led to an irrevocable decision.The court could therefore not have declared itself unauthorized on the basis of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure.The case should have been dealt with in terms of content, whereby the man could have chosen to invoke the Iranian decision as a substantive defense against the woman's claim.
Needle: Explanation of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure
20. Since the party debate has focused on the interpretation of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, both in the first instance and on appeal, assuming that there is a situation of
litis pendency
, the Court attaches great importance to the question of the question raised by the parties about the explanation of the second sentence of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.If it would be assumed with the parties and the court that in this case there would be a situation of
litis pendency
, the following applies.
21. The court has declared itself unauthorized in the contested judgment on the basis of Article 12 DCCT, because - in short - the Iranian decision of 16 June 2019 on the basis of HR 26 September 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 2838 for recognitionAnd would be susceptible to execution in the Netherlands.Unlike the court, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that in the present case Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure does not stand in the way of the exercise of jurisdiction by the Dutch court.The court explains that as follows.If the conditions from the first sentence of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Code are met, the Dutch court declares itself, according to the second sentence of Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure, unauthorized if the foreign decision for recognition and, where appropriate, turns out to be susceptible to enforcement in the Netherlands.The parliamentary history of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure states the following: "
Foreign decisions can only be implemented in the Netherlands if international treaties entail this, see Article 431 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.If that is not the case, then there will therefore be no question of the situation of litisendentie referred to in Article 1.1.11 [Article 12 DCCP, Court of Appeal], because the procedure started earlier abroad is not eligible for execution in the Netherlands.
(Parl. Gesch. Civil Procedure 2002, p. 119)
22. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, it follows from the intentions of the legislator that Article 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure does not apply when the
litis pendencyoccurs in the relationship with a foreign state with which the Netherlands has no - bilateral or multilateral - execution agreement on the basis of which the foreign decision is eligible for execution in the Netherlands.The fact that the Iranian decision can lead to a Dutch enforceable title through HR 26 September 2014 in which the content of the Iranian decision is, therefore, is therefore insufficient for the application of Article 12 DCCP.For this explanation of Article 12 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, the Court finds support in HR 12 April 2019, ECLI: NL: HR: 2019: 566, r.o.3.4.5, last sentence.
23. This means that in the contested judgment the court has shown an incorrect view of law with regard to Article 12 DCCP.
Conclusion
24. On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal comes to the conclusion that in this case the Dutch court is international authority and the claim of the woman to convince the man for payment of the deferred bridal gift can deal with substantively.The Court of Appeal will therefore set aside the contested judgment and refer the case to the Rotterdam District Court for a substantive handling of the case on the basis of Article 76 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, now that the man does not agree with the woman - according to her petitum - to the Courtrequested to keep the case.
Proceedings
25. In view of the relationship between parties such as spouses and nature of the case, the Court sees reason to compensate for the costs of the proceedings, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
Decision
The Council:
in the incident
:
Destroys the judgment of the Rotterdam District Court of 14 April 2021, and again right:
rejects the incidental claims of the man;
declares that the Dutch court has international authority to assess the claim of the woman to pay the man for payment of the deferred bridal gift;
refers the case on the basis of Article 76 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure to the Rotterdam District Court for a substantive handling of the case;
compensates the costs of the proceedings in the sense that each of the parties bears their own costs;
rejects it more or otherwise advanced.
This judgment was given by mrs.F. Ibili, A.C. Olland and P.M.A.J.Bulbs, and signed and pronounced in public by J.E.H.M.Pinckaers, role councilor, on March 15, 2022 in the presence of the clerk.