ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 1941
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2020: 1941
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Date of judgment
13-03-2020
Date of publication
14-04-2020
Case
8087227 CV Expl 19-20548
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Dissolution of the lease agreement due to hemp plantation.Danger wrongly triggered.Insufficiently substantiated that plantation was laid out under forced from third (s)
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Private Law Department
Case number: 8087227 CV Expl 19-20548
judgment of: March 13, 2020
FNO.: 8622
judgment of the subdistrict court judge
In Z A K E
[plaintiff]
residing in Amsterdam
plaintiff
to be mentioned: [plaintiff]
authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri
in return for
The Rochdale Housing Foundation Foundation
Based in Amsterdam
defendant
to be mentioned: Rochdale
authorized representative: S. Wijnekus
Course of the procedure
[plaintiff] summoned Rochdale on 27 September 2019. Appendices were added to the summons.Rochdale responded to the summons.In addition, documents were brought into the proceedings and Rochdale has also established a counterclaim.
Subsequently, an interlocutory judgment was given and a date determined for a session.This oral treatment took place on 13 February 2020. [plaintiff] was published there, assisted by an interpreter and accompanied by his authorized representative.On behalf of Rochdale, Mrs. [name] was published, together with the authorized representative.The parties explained their views at the hearing.After further debate, a judgment was requested and a date for judgment was determined.
Grounds of the decision
Facts
1. If stated and recognized or not (sufficiently) contradicted, the following is certain in this case:
1.1.
As of December 14, 2011, Rochdale rents out the house to [plaintiff] at the [address] in [place].
1.2.
A hemp nursery was found in the rented property on 20 May 2019.The police have drawn up an official report of the dismantling of this nursery.It states, among other things, that 50 plants and 12 assimilation lamps were found in the living room decorated as a breeding room.It was also stated that there was theft of electricity.It is visible on attached photos that the grow space was fully insulated, that ventilation had been installed and that a multitude of electricity cords had been installed.Finally, it is stated that the bedroom and the kitchen were inhabited.
1.3.
By judgment in summary proceedings of 12 September 2019, the subdistrict court judge in Amsterdam sentenced [plaintiff] to evacuate.
1.4.
On October 11, 2019, the rented property was evacuated by the bailiff.
claim and defense in the convention
2. [plaintiff] claims judgment to be declared enforceable in stock:
to declare that the termination of the rent was unlawful;
to declare that the dissolution must be undone;
to declare that Rochdale is liable for the damage that [plaintiff] has suffered;
To order Rochdale to allocate [plaintiff] of the rented property or if that is no longer available a similar home, on pain of a penalty.
In all this, Rochdale must be ordered to pay the costs, according to [plaintiff].
3. In short, the claimant lays to the fact that the hemp nursery found is a shortcoming, but this is insufficient for termination of the lease in the given circumstances.
4. Rochdale defends the progress.That defense will be discussed in the assessment, insofar as relevant.
claim and defense in counterclaim
5. In the counterclaim, Rochdale claims dissolution of the lease with the order of [plaintiff] to pay the costs of the proceedings.
6. [plaintiff] defends this, which coincides with the propositions in the convention.
Assessment in the convention and counterclaim
7. The first two claims of [plaintiff] are not assignable, because the lease still exists, despite the fact that the rented property has been evacuated.
8. What must then be assessed in essence is whether the lease should also be maintained now and whether the eviction should be reversed.
9. [plaintiff] acknowledges that there was a hemp nursery in the rented property.It is also acknowledged that electricity was taken outside the meter.It is of general familiarity that this is fire hazard.The mere statement of [plaintiff] that there was no fire hazard here is insufficient to look at it differently.On the contrary: the nursery in operation with assimilation lamps and the (visible) jumble of electricity wires (visible) only confirms the fire hazard in this specific case.The position taken on behalf of [plaintiff] that there was only a water leak in an already old building is therefore a misplaced weakening of what happened here.There is a serious shortcoming in the fulfillment of the lease.10. The seriousness of that shortcoming must then be weighed against the residential interest of [plaintiff] to assess whether the termination of the lease is justified.All circumstances of the case can play a role in this.In addition to the general interest in a home, [plaintiff] has argued in that context that he has - in short - forced to place and exploit the nursery.He just did not substantiate this coercion sufficiently.The summons only states that his reduced mental condition has been abused, without explaining what exactly happened.At the hearing, this became more concrete: [plaintiff] referred to a report that shows that he reported to the police for abduction.The people involved in those kidnapping would have come to get a story after the declaration to [plaintiff].He would also be guilty of people, so he saw no other way out.However, the declaration dates from April 2017, while according to [plaintiff], the hemp farm was only placed in 2019.An explanation of what the connection between these matters is was not given at the hearing.[plaintiff] has insufficiently substantiated that he could not help but allow the hemp nursery in his home.If unauthorized pressure was put on him, he could have and should have go to the police, as he had done earlier in 2017.
11. Now that the stated coercion is not sufficiently substantiated, it does not have to be assessed whether it would stand in the way of dissolution.The remaining general interest in a home - no matter how clamping - does not outweigh the seriousness of the shortcoming.This means that the lease will be dissolved and that the eviction will be maintained.
12. Now that [plaintiff] is wrong, he has to pay the costs of the proceedings of Rochdale.In view of the coherence between the claims and the counterclaim, only one cost order will be pronounced.
DECISION
The Subdistrict Court:
In convention:
rejects the advanced;
orders [plaintiff] to pay the costs of the proceedings, on the side of Rochdale estimated on
€ 360.00 in salary authorized representative;
orders [plaintiff] in the costs arising after this judgment, estimated at € 60.00 in salary authorized representative, to be increased by an amount of € 68.00 and the writings of the award of the judgment, all this insofar as applicable including VAT, on the condition that [plaintiff] did not fully comply with this judgment within fourteen days of notification and has only been served by the judgment after fourteen days after notification;
explains the costs of the proceedings enforceable in stock;
In counterclaim:
dissolves the lease between [plaintiff] and Rochdale with regard to the house at Gravestein 542 in Amsterdam.
This verdict was given by C.W.Inden, Subdistrict Court, and pronounced in public on 13 March 2020 in the presence of the clerk.