ECLI: NL: RBOVE: 2021: 993
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBOVE: 2021: 993
Instance
Overijssel District Court
Date of judgment
03-03-2021
Date of publication
09-03-2021
Case
C/08/235237/HA SA 19-329
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
First instance - Multiple
Contents indication
Statements during interview do not yield an unlawful act under the given circumstances.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Psupdates.nl 2021-0223
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Overijssel District Court
Team canton and commercial law
Seat in Zwolle
Case number / Role number: C / 08 /235237 / HA SA 19-329
Judgment of 3 March 2021
in the case of
the private company with limited liability
Masterpiece B.V.
,, "
located in Zwolle,
Plaintiff,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
the legal person public law
Municipality of Zwolle
,, "
seating in Zwolle,
defendant,
Lawyer mr. W.E.M.Klostermann in Zwolle.
The parties will hereinafter be referred to as the masterpiece and the municipality of Zwolle.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
The interlocutory judgment of September 11, 2019,
-
The conclusion of reply also deed amendment of requirement,
-
The conclusion of Duffiek.
1.2.
Finally, a judgment was determined.
2
The facts
2.1.
The municipality of Zwolle had a subsidy relationship with Cooperative Boer en Zorg (hereinafter: Boer en Zorg).Meesterwerk granted WMO support to clients within the municipality of Zwolle as a subcontractor of farmer and care.This subsidy relationship was terminated at the end of 2016.
2.2.
The municipality of Zwolle and Boer and Care made an amicable arrangement in January 2017 that was laid down in the (undated and only signed by masterpiece) settlement proposal of masterpiece, the letter of 30 January 2017 of farmer and care to the municipality of Zwolle and the letter of31 January 2017 from the municipality of Zwolle to Boer en Zorg.The parties have been agreed that farmer and care will not use legal remedies against the 2015, 2016 and 2017 subsidy decisions and that the municipality adheres to the agreed conditions.Part of the agreement is the recovery of an amount of € 622,763.This amount has been paid.It has also been agreed that the municipality of Zwolle will communicate neutral about the termination of the subsidy relationship.
2.3.
In December 2018, H.J.Meijer, then mayor of the municipality of Zwolle, given an interview to Dagblad De Stentor.At that time, Meijer was chairman of the Regional Information and Expertise Center (hereafter RIEC) Eastern Netherlands.The interview, published on December 22, 2018, states the following:
Eastern Netherlands is going to subject "money seekers in healthcare" to a strict test
To keep rogue care providers out, municipalities in the Eastern Netherlands will extensively test care parties in advance before they sign contracts.How do they get their money?What are their exact plans?Answers is mandatory.Officials used to work "somewhat unsuspecting" in Zwolle mayor Jan Meijer.
According to Meijer, healthcare nowadays attracts countless lucky seekers, because there is a lot of money to be made.Municipalities in the Eastern Netherlands are now joining forces to prevent this.They precede newcomers to subjects very critical questions, a model that already leads to success in Twente.And they will share information about poor providers, so that the "bad guys" cannot hop from one municipality to another.As mayor, Meijer had the necessary to set with the Zorgorganisatie Meesterwerk in his city.The college turned the money crane to the organization last year, because masterpiece did not properly spent the care money and gave clients too little guidance.The result was that dozens of people had to switch to another care provider.In Deventer, the company is now also under fire at the municipality.
Unsubscribe contracts
"Since that situation, I have been calling in every consultation that we have to be alert to fraud," says Meijer, who is chairman of the Regional Information and Expertise Center (RIEC) Eastern Netherlands.He wants to prevent a waterbed effect.“After the situation with masterpiece, we immediately briefed the municipality of Deventer, where this organization is located, about our experiences.The lines are then laid quickly.If you as a municipality have more information, it becomes easy.And scare off in advance works better than making arrests afterwards. "Due to the decentralization in healthcare, there are many more care parties.“The freedom of choice is beautiful but also new for civil servants.Despite good intentions, they sometimes work somewhat innocent.The money then does not end up where it should be: the citizens in need of help. (...) ”
2.4.A discussion took place between the parties on January 21, 2019 about the interview of Meijer.By letter of 2 April 2019, masterpiece asked the municipality for a rectification.The municipality of Zwolle then responded to a letter of 5 April 2019 to masterpiece and sent a copy of this letter to the Stentor some time later.The Stentor has seen no reason to pay attention to this letter in her newspaper.The municipality of Zwolle informed the Stentor to this on 4 June 2019.Subsequently, the municipality of Zwolle and masterpiece corresponded to a rectification.On 24 July 2019, Meesterwerk gave permission to place the text proposed by the municipality of Zwolle.
2.5.
The rectification below was published on 31 July 2019 in three editions of the Stentor and in one edition of De Gelderlander:
The municipality of Zwolle announces the following:
In the publication of December 22, 2018, the Stentor reported on an interview with Mr. H.J.Meijer as chairman of the Regional Information and Expertise Center (RIEC).The subject of that conversation was undermining in the broadest sense of the word.
During the conversation, Mr. H.J.Meijer made a connection between Meesterwerk BV and fraud.
The municipality of Zwolle and Mr. H.J.Meijer has already taken a distance from the bandage in the direction of masterpiece.This is confirmed in good consultation between the municipality and Meesterwerk BV.
Mr. H.J.Meijer did not want to accuse Meesterwerk BV of fraud and apologizes for this.
2.6.
On July 4, 2019, masterpiece summoned the municipality of Zwolle.
3
The dispute
3.1.
After changing the requirement-in summary-the municipality of Zwolle claims to the extent possible to order the judgment enforceable in stock to pay the masterpiece of the reputation damage suffered, the lost income and expected lost income, extrajudicial costs of € 15,000, after-costs of€ 2,000
the costs of this procedure, plus statutory interest,
and to declare that the actions of the municipality of Zwolle have been unlawful towards the masterpiece and that the municipality of Zwolle is obliged to compensate for the damage suffered as a result.
3.2.
Meesterwerk argues that the municipality of Zwolle has acted unlawfully by accusing the masterpiece of fraud and also points to the agreements it has made with the municipality of Zwolle.She argues to have suffered damage because her good name, credibility, integrity and reputation have been affected.There is material and immaterial damage.Because the damage is currently insufficiently insightful, it claims compensation to further deduct it.
3.3.
The municipality of Zwolle disputes that there is an accusation or suspected suspicions of fraud towards masterpiece.According to her, this does not follow from the text and the context of the article in the Stentor and was also not the intention.Any consequences for masterpiece were not to be expected, now that it was only referred to an earlier incident, which in itself had already been extensively in publicity.If there has already been unlawful statements, the unlawfulness is removed by the rectification.In addition, the municipality of Zwolle argues that masterpiece has not substantiated in any way why the damage it has suffered and why this damage would have caused the article.The municipality of Zwolle reserves its rights with regard to allocation question, because Meijer was interviewed by his chairmanship of the RIEC Oost Netherlands and not as mayor.
3.4.
The statements and defenses of the parties are discussed below in more detail insofar as that is important for the assessment of the dispute.
4
The assessment
4.1.
The core of the dispute is whether the municipality of Zwolle has been guilty of an unlawful act by the relevant judgments.
4.2.
It should be assessed whether there is a collision in this case between the importance that individual citizens are not exposed by publications in the press to light suspicions (the right to respect for the good name), as it is, among other things, by Article 6:162 BW is protected, and the right to freedom of expression, as laid down in the Constitution and the ECHR, and, if so, which of the aforementioned fundamental rights in the specific case outweighs.The answer to that latter question must be found by an assessment of all the circumstances of the case and with due observance of the necessity and proportionality test.The assessment must be made in one go, whereby the opinion that one of the two rights, in view of all the circumstances serving circumstances, weighs heavier than the other right, means that the infringement of the other right meets the necessity test of Article 8, paragraph 2respectively Article 10, paragraph 2 of the ECHR (see among others HR January 18, 2008, ECLI: NL: HR: 2008: BB3210). These circumstances include the nature of the disclosures and the seriousness of the expected consequences of this for masterpiece, theThe interest of the municipality of Zwolle in the (stated) expressing the announcements, the extent to which the announcements were supported at the time of expressing them in the then available facts material, the clothing of the facts, the degree of probability that in the public interest theThe target pursued by others, less harmful ways with a reasonable chance of soon success for the other party could have been achieved, and the chance that the information in question would also have been in the publicity without the accused posting to the press (HR 24 June 1983,ECLI: NL: HR: 1983: AD2221).
4.3.
With regard to the circumstances of the present case, the court considers as follows.
4.4.
It can be deduced from the text of the article that Meijer was interviewed in response to the regional approach to "keep lucky seekers out".As mayor and chairman of RIEC Eastern Netherlands, Meijer was questioned about the policy intent of municipalities in the Eastern Netherlands to join forces.He has explained that the municipalities want to combat the attraction of care on fortune seekers by subjecting newcomers to very critical questions and by sharing information about poor providers.It follows from the article that during the interview the journalist stated at some point that the municipality closed the money tap to masterpiece in the past because he did not spend the care money properly and gave clients too little guidance, so that dozens of people had to switch to another care provider.In the next paragraph under the heading "Suspectless contracts" are continued with Meijer's comment: "Since that situation I have been calling in every consultation about care that we have to be alert to fraud."And “After the situation with masterpiece, we immediately briefed the municipality of Deventer, where this organization is located, about our experiences.The lines are then laid quickly.If you as a municipality have more information, it becomes easy.And scare off in advance works better than making arrests afterwards. "(...) “The freedom of choice is beautiful but also new for civil servants.Despite good intentions, they sometimes work somewhat innocent.The money then does not end up where it should be: the citizens in need of help ”.
4.5.
Although the masterpiece can be admitted that the temporal reference to "that situation" can suggest that masterpiece is being associated with fraud, the court does not consider the threshold of an unlawful act achieved.
Firstly, it is relevant that this sentence does not express a literal suspicion or accusation of fraud.The journalist refers to earlier publications about the situation in which the subsidy relationship between the municipality of Zwolle and Meesterwerk has been terminated and Meijer elaborates on this within the context of the article.Meijer does not come up with the name masterpiece and does not use unnecessary grievous terms.The circumstance that the statements made by the mayor does not lead to a different assessment in this case.There is, however, an unfortunate formulation that can be used to create the impression that Meijer is associated with fraud.However, it does not follow from the context and or content of the statements that Meijer wanted to accuse Meijer, nor that Meijer's intention was to make the aforementioned connection.In addition, the municipality, with the approval of masterpiece, has rectified the suggested connection by declaring that Meijer has not meant to accuse masterpiece of fraud.Meijer has also apologized for the statements in this rectification.Although masterpiece objects to the form and limited scope of the rectification in this procedure, it does not connect any concrete consequences to this.All in all, this means that the court takes the starting point that the unfortunate statement with the rectification has been sufficiently corrected.
4.6.
In addition, the existence of damage caused by the statements has not proved to be sufficient, so that the requirements set out in Article 6: 162 of the Dutch Civil Code are not met on that ground.The court is considering this as follows.
4.7.With regard to the reputation damage, masterpiece has referred to its productions 10, 11 and 12. In production 10, a message is brought into the proceedings in which an intake interview is canceled, production 11 is an undated message in which an earlier registration is canceled and production 12 is aundated negative review.In these messages no indication can be found for the statement that they are related to the publication in the Stentor.Not in the text and - in the absence of a year, a date - either - nor at the time when the messages were sent/posted.Meesterwerk does not respond to the defense of the municipality of Zwolle that earlier negative publicity has influenced its good name.
Since it is not in dispute that masterpiece had been in the news before and more often, considering the foregoing cannot be reduced whether the interview has been the reason for these messages.
4.8.
Masterpiece also acknowledges that the extent of the (income) damage is currently insufficiently insightful and therefore claims material and intangible compensation to further take out State.She notes that "in any case it is clear that the claimant has wrongly paid for the settlement, now that the municipality of Zwolle is not complying with this settlement".
Without further explanation, which is missing, however, masterpiece cannot be followed in this position.After all, she has based her position on Article 6: 162 of the Dutch Civil Code.If and insofar as it has also intended to make a claim on the basis of an attributable shortcoming in the fulfillment of the commitments from the settlement agreement of 31 January 2018 (r.o. 2.2.), It should have been further explained her position.This applies all the more so now that the municipality of Zwolle argues with a reasoned manner with reference to productions 17 and 18 that the aforementioned settlement has been made between farmer and care and the municipality of Zwolle and not between masterpiece and the municipality of Zwolle.Masterpiece then does not contribute sufficient circumstances on the basis of which it should be concluded that it too can derive rights to the settlement agreements.
4.9.
Masterpiece also argues that it has suffered damage in the form of lost income due to the missing of clients.She argues that it is of the utmost importance for clients that they can trust their care provider and that the missing of an individual client costs forty to sixty thousand euros.Losing a whole group of clients such as in Deventer means a damage that runs in the tons.
The municipality of Zwolle disputes that masterpiece has suffered damage that is in a causal context with the statements and argues that there have been many publications about the termination of the subsidy relationship because the care was partly not and partly not properly granted by masterpiece.The group of clients in Deventer went away in response to a completely different issue, namely the fact that masterpiece provided care in homes that were not intended for care homes.The claims listed in the petitum are in no way substantiated and there is also a considerable explanation of the causal context, according to the municipality of Zwolle.
4.10.
The court is of the opinion that masterpiece has not sufficiently plausible the existence of the claimed damage.In the light of the defense of the municipality of Zwolle, Meesterwerk could be expected to have substantiated the link between the damage and interview that it had stated and that it had set facts and figures - that make it plausible that it may have suffered damage as a result ofThe fault.This also applies in the event that compensation is made in more detail in the state (VGL: ECLI: NL: PHR: 2010: BN9465).The declining decline of clients has not been made insight into and the connection between this declared decrease and the statements of Meijer is also not sufficiently substantiated.That had been on the way of Mesterwerk, all the more now that the municipality has argued without being contradicted that the alleged decline in clients had a different reason due to previous negative publications.
4.11.
It is concluded of any damage due to the statements has proven to be insufficient and that, in the absence of the specified concrete facts and circumstances, it is not being given to proof of evidence.
4.12.A second reproach that masterpiece makes to the municipality of Zwolle is that the municipality of Zwolle has made negative statements about it against the municipality of Deventer.However, the masterpiece leaves after this statement with sufficient substantiation.The mere circumstance mentioned in the article of the Stentor that there has been contact between the municipalities about masterpiece does not mean that the municipality of Zwolle has acted unlawfully.Now that masterpiece does not lead other circumstances, it has remained unclear what would have been said and why that would be unlawful under the given circumstances.Now that this reproach only is stranding for that reason, the court does not come to this point to supply delivery.
4.13.
All circumstances taken into account, the court comes to the conclusion that the provisions of the provisions cannot be qualified as unlawful acts.The foregoing leads to the claims being rejected.
4.14.
Masterpiece will be ordered as the unsuccessful party in the subsequent costs and the costs of the proceedings will be ordered.The costs on the part of the municipality of Zwolle are estimated at:
- Registry fee € 1,992.00
- Salary lawyer €
1,126.00
(2 × rate € 563.00)
Total € 3,118.00
5
The decision
The court
5.1.
rejects the progress,
5.2.
orders masterpiece in the costs of the main action on the part of the municipality of Zwolle to date estimated at € 3,118.00, plus the statutory interest as referred to in art.6: 119 of the Dutch Civil Code with effect from the fifteenth day after service of this judgment until the day of full payment,
5.3.
orders masterpiece in the costs arising after this judgment, estimated at € 157.00 in the lawyer's salary, on the condition that masterpiece did not comply with the judgment within 14 days of notification and subsequently served the decision, withAn amount of € 82.00 in the lawyer's salary and the writings of service of the decision, and plus the statutory interest as referred to in art.6: 119 of the Dutch Civil Code with effect from fourteen days after the service of this judgment until the payment,
5.4.
declares this judgment enforceable with regard to the cost order.
This verdict was given by T.R.Hidma, J.N.Bartels and E.C.Rozeboom and pronounced in public by J.N.Bartels on March 3, 2021.
1
1
type:
Coll: