ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 2505
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 2505
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
17-03-2022
Date of publication
23-03-2022
Case
NL21.19658
Jurisdiction
Alien right
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
,, "
Provisional provision+soil store
Contents indication
Profession inadmissible.Plaintiff Mob.No Procedure of Procedure
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
Site Middelburg
Administrative law
Case number: NL21.19658
pronunciation of the single chamber in the case between
[name], plaintiff
V-number: [number]
(authorized representative: F. Bouyaghjdane),
and
The State Secretary of Justice and Security, Defendant
(Controller: J.J.M. van Gils).
Process
By decision of 9 December 2021 (the contested decision), the defendant rejected the plaintiff's asylum application as manifestly unfounded.
Plaintiff has appealed against the contested decision.
The defendant has submitted a statement of defense.
The court dealt with the appeal, together with the AWB 22/30 case, on 25 February 2022 at the hearing.The plaintiff has been represented by A. Jawaheri, as an observer of his authorized representative.He was digitally present at the session.The defendant has been represented by his authorized representative.
Consideration
1. Before the court can proceed to the substantive handling of the grounds of appeal, the court must automatically answer the question whether the claimant still has the interest in the assessment of his appeal.
2. On 22 February 2022, the defendant announced that the claimant has left with an unknown destination since 4 January 2022.Subsequently, the court requested the plaintiff's representative on 24 February 2022 to indicate when contacted with the claimant for the last time and whether the plaintiff's representative knows where the claimant is staying.There was no response to this for the session.
3. From a settled case law of the Department
1
It follows that if a foreign national who has requested protection in the Netherlands leaves with an unknown destination without letting the defendant know where he is staying, it may in principle be assumed that the foreign national no longer appreciates the protection initially sought in the Netherlands.This is only different if a foreign national says that he is maintaining current contact with his authorized representative.
4. In the opinion of the court, it does not appear that there is current contact between the claimant and his authorized representative.At the hearing, the authorized representative stated that he had no recent contact with the claimant and that the claimant could not make contact with him.The last contact with the claimant was at the end of 2021, before submitting the profession.The plaintiff's authorized representative has indicated at the hearing that the plaintiff is certainly staying in the Netherlands, but has not been able to explain where he is currently staying.In addition, a request for a provisional provision was submitted on January 3, 2022, because the plaintiff had to leave the reception and that in response to this on January 4, 2022 it was stated by the defendant that the claimant will retain or can again obtain his right to reception if hehas already left shelter.The plaintiff no longer reported to the COA for reception.The plaintiff's authorized representative still pointed out the psychological problems of the plaintiff.According to the court, this does not lead to the conclusion that this must be adopted.The court concludes that the claimant no longer appreciates asylum protection in the Netherlands, so that he no longer has an interest in the substantive assessment of his profession.
5. The appeal is therefore inadmissible.
6. There is no reason for an order for costs.
Decision
The court declares the appeal inadmissible.
This statement was made by A.C.J.van Dooijeweert, judge, in the presence of
mr. M. van Andel, clerk.
The decision was pronounced in public and announced on:
Remedial agent
A appeal can be lodged against this decision at the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State within one week of the day of announcement.
1Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State, see for example the ruling of 22 September 2019, ECLI: NL: RVS: 2019: 579.