ECLI: NL: Gharl: 2023: 5421
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: Gharl: 2023: 5421
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal
Date of judgment
20-06-2023
Date of publication
17-07-2023
Case
200.314.803/01 and 200.314.804/01
Jurisdiction
Person-and familyright
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
Jurisdiction and applicable law.Woman can submit a divorce request without renouncing her right to the bridal gift.This right does not fall into a possible matrimonial property community of the parties.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
SDU News Personal and Family Law 2023/440
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal
Location Leeuwarden
Civil Department
Case numbers Court of Appeal 200.314.803/01 and 200.314.804/01
(Case number of the Northern Netherlands Court 204775)
Decision of 20 June 2023
in the case of
[applicant]
,, "
residing in [hometown1],
applicant on appeal,
further: the man,
lawyer: A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
and
[defendant]
,, "
residing in [hometown1],
defendant on appeal,
further: the woman,
Lawyer: H. Postma in Groningen.
1
The procedure at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decisions of the Northern Netherlands District Court, location Groningen, from 23 August 2021 and of 7 June 2022 (hereinafter: the contested decision), pronounced under the aforementioned case number.
2
The appeal procedure
2.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the appeal with appendix (s), received on August 15, 2022;
-
the news report on behalf of the man of 27 September 2022 with attachment (s);
-
the news report on behalf of the man of November 10, 2022 with appendix (s);
-
the statement of defense with appendix (s).
2.2.
The oral treatment took place on March 31, 2023.Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.Both parties have used the services of an interpreter.
3
The facts
3.1.
Parties have Dutch and Iranian nationality.
3.2.
Parties are married [in] 1996 in [place1] (Iran).In the marriage certificate, the parties' agreement includes:
The Marriage Portion: The Husband is in Debt to the Wife to Give and/Or Pay Her A Copy of the Holy Quran Priceed 10,000 Rials Together with sum of Fifteen Million Rianals and 30 Full-Size Bahar A Azadi Gold Coins On Her Demand
.
3.3.
The man and the wife are the parents of the minor [the minor], born [in] 2007. She has her main residence with the woman.The man and the woman still have two children, who are now of age.
4
The dispute
4.1.
In the contested decision it is:
- pronounced the divorce between the parties;
- determines that the main residence of the minor [the minor] will be with the woman and that [the minor] and the man determine in mutual consultation when they see each other;
- determines that the man from the date of the contested decision as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the minor [the minor] must pay an amount of € 165 per month to the woman;
- stipulates that the woman will be a tenant of the property at the address [address] in [residence1], with effect from the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of the Civil Registry;
- determines that the man has to pay the (deferred) bridal gift of 30 Golden Bahar Azadi gold coins, as well as the indexed amount of 15 million Rial and within four weeks of the date of the decision;
- the more or other requested rejected.
4.2.
The man appealed with seven complaints.He requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision with regard to:
1. Pronouncing the divorce between parties, married [in] 1996 in [place1]
in Iran;
2. The provision that the man to the woman from the date of the
divorce decision as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the
child, for the future periods always in advance will pay € 165 per
month;
3. The provision that the woman will be a tenant of the house in [hometown1] at the
address [address];and
4. The provision that the man to women a bridal gift of 30 Golden Bahar Azadi Golden
Coins must pay, as well as the indexed amount of Rial 15,000,000.
4.3.
The woman defends.
5
The considerations for the decision
The jurisdiction
5.1.Just like the court, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the Dutch court is joined forces with regard to the divorce requested by the woman because both parties had (also) the Dutch nationality at the time of the request (also) (Article 3, paragraph 1,prayer and under b, of the Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 "Brussels II-bis").On the basis of the provisions of Article 3, preamble and under b, of the Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 (alimony regulation), the Dutch court will be entitled to jur in terms of the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the minor, because becauseThe maintenance entitled to maintenance lives in the Netherlands.Pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), the Dutch court entails jurisdiction with regard to the secondary facilities regarding the rent right of the home located in the Netherlands.Pursuant to Article 5 of the matrimonial property regulation, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the woman's request with regard to the bridal gift.
The applicable law
5.2.
On the request for divorce and the ancillary requests regarding the minor and the tenancy law, the court applied Dutch law and to the request on the Iranian law bridal.There are no complaints against this, so that the Court will also go out.
The admissibility of the woman in her introductory requests (complaint 2)
5.3.
The man states that the woman must still be declared inadmissible in her request for divorce and her additional requests.According to the man, the woman has insufficiently compromised reasons that justify the lack of a parenting plan.The woman fights that.
5.4.
Article 815, paragraph 2, of the Code of Civil Code stipulates that the petition for divorce must contain a parenting plan when the spouses have a minor child.That is the case here because [the minor] is minor.The documents show that on January 12, 2021, so prior to submitting the divorce request to the court, the man made the man in a letter on, among other things, the main residence of [the minor] and an access arrangement of [the minor]With the man.The woman has stated that the man did not respond to this letter.During the oral hearing at the court in August 2021, the court found that the parties saw opportunities to come up with agreements with regard to [the minor] and they were given the opportunity to do so in the interim decision of 23 August 2021.By letter of 17 November 2021, the woman then contacted the man again to enter into consultation.However, the man did not respond to this, however, the woman said undisputed.At the hearing of the Court, it turned out that the contact between the parties has been broken for two years, which means that the parties have not been able to make agreements about [the minor] even after the contested decision and have not been able to draw up a parenting plan.In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the woman has made enough effort to arrive at a parenting plan and that she cannot reasonably consult a parenting plan.The woman can therefore be received in her requests.
The divorce (complaint 1)
5.5.
The man states that, unlike the court, the marriage of the parties is not sustainably disrupted.The man argues that from the circumstances that parties do not live together and experience communication problems, it does not follow that the marriage is sustainably disrupted.He believes that the parties can still come to a solution of their mutual disputes in joint consultations through mediation.
5.6.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the marriage of the parties is sustainably disrupted as referred to in Article 1: 151 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW).A marriage is "sustainably disrupted" when the continuation of society has become unbearable, without there being a prospect of recovery of decent marital relationships.If a spouse states motivated and perseveres that he can no longer live with his husband, this will almost always be a decisive indication that the marriage is sustainably disrupted (HR December 6, 1996, NJ 1997, 189).
5.7.
The documents and what was discussed at the hearing show that the parties have not been living together for more than two years and no longer have contact with each other.The woman does not want to resume society with the man and persists at her request for divorce.The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this proved sufficient that the marriage has been disrupted sustainably.The woman's request for divorce has therefore been assigned to correct grounds by the court.
The costs of care and upbringing (complaint 3)
5.8.The man states that in the calculation of the needs of the minor [the minor] and the man's capacity, the court was wrongly assumed by the amounts mentioned by the woman.
The need
5.9.
At the hearing it turned out that the parties agree that the needs of [the minor] in 2022 can be set at an amount of € 165 per month.The Court of Appeal will, with the court, assume that amount.
The capacity
5.10.
The man states that he does not have sufficient capacity to pay a contribution for [the minor] because he depends on income from a benefit and work in Iran and he receives no more than € 600 per month.
The woman fights that the man's income is only € 600 per month.According to her, the man is able to pay the amount of € 165 per month.
5.11.
The Court of Appeal first of all states that the court has determined that from 7 June 2022 the man must pay € 165 per month as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of [the minor].A submitted salary slip shows that the man received Netto 84,606,754 Rial in the period from 22 May 2021 to 21 June 2021.The woman states that this is € 1,923.54 and the man has insufficiently refuted that.No data has been submitted of the income that the man afterwards received afterwards, and in particular in the period from 7 June 2022.During the oral treatment, however, the man announced that his income has increased by around 15% after the aforementioned salary slip.As a result, the man has insufficiently substantiated that his income is at most € 600 net per month and that he is unable to pay a contribution for [the minor] of € 165 per month from 7 June 2022.The burden of a rental home in the Netherlands sets by the man do not make it any different, since it is certain that the man actually lives and works in Iran and is only stating in the Netherlands three to four times a year.There is no need for a necessity to keep a home in the Netherlands, so that the costs thereof cannot be at the expense of the man's maintenance contribution for [the minor].The Court will therefore maintain the decision of the court.
Rent law (complaint 4)
5.12.
The man states that the court wrongly granted the rent right of the former marital home to the woman.According to the man, the court wrongly disregarded in the weighing of interests with regard to the rental right that there are two other children in addition to the minor [the minor].The man states that he rents part of a home and that the son of parties now also stay there, while that home is not suitable for this.The man argues that by assigning the rental law to the woman he is seriously limited in his right to a family life with the children.
5.13.
The Court of Appeal first of all states that the man has not made a request to grant the tenancy law to him.He only requests the decision of the court that the woman will be a tenant of the home.The Court of Appeal notes that allocation of that request would mean that both parties will jointly remain the tenant of the home.The woman has stated that she does not want to resume society with the man so that this is not an option for her.In addition, the man did not resist that the main residence of [the minor] is with the woman.The woman will therefore have to have suitable living space for herself and [the minor], so that her interest is a given in the continued use of the home.The man, on the other hand, lives and works in Iran and, according to his statement at the hearing, stays in the Netherlands 3 to 4 times a year.The man has insufficiently substantiated that he cannot have adequate living space during the periods that he is staying in the Netherlands.After all, he now rents part of a house in [hometown1].Although the son of the parties is staying there too, the son is, after the unprecedented statement of the woman, of age and self -reliant as well as the adult daughter of parties.These children must therefore be deemed to be able to live independently and to be able to independently shape any desired contacts with the man so that the man cannot derive an interest in the continued tenant right of the former marital home.With regard to [the minor], the man has not submitted facts or circumstances that show that it is necessary to maintain adequate contacts with [the minor] that he can stay in the former marital home.After all, he has his own living space where he can receive [the minor].The man has therefore insufficiently substantiated that his interests should outweigh the interests of the woman when maintaining the rental law when only being able to continue that tenancy law.The Court will therefore also maintain this decision of the court.
Right to the bridal gift (complaint 5)
5.14.
The man states that, unlike the court, the woman has renounced her right to a wedding gift.The man argues that under Iranian law, the woman has no right to request divorce unless a general power of attorney has been provided or when the divorce request is based on one of the provisions in the marriage certificate.According to the man, the woman has requested divorce without invoking one of those exceptions and is therefore a so-called KHUL divorce, as referred to in Article 1146 of the Iranian law, where a woman renounces her entitlement to the bridal to the bridal gift toIranian law.
The man argues that, insofar as the woman is entitled to the bridal gift, this one belongs to the matrimonial power.
5.15.
The woman disputes that there is a Khul-Arms separation.According to the woman, she is entitled and owner of the bridal gift and that bridal gift must be qualified as a SUI Generis claim.
5.16.
The English translation of Article 1146 of the Iranian civil law is:
A khul'a divorce occurs when the wife obtains a divorce owing to dislike of her husband, against Property which she cedes to the husband.The Property in Question May Consist of the Original Marriage Portion, or the Monetary Equivalent Thereof, Whether More or Less than the Marriage Portion.
5.17.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it follows from the marriage certificate that the woman can claim the man's bridal gift if she wishes and that there are no conditions in that deed.It has not been stated that the parties made other agreements on this at any time as described in Article 1146 of the Iranian Civil Law, where the woman would have renounced her right to (part of) the bridal gift.In addition, the request for divorce of Dutch law applies to the request for divorce submitted by the woman in the Netherlands.Under Dutch law, the woman can submit such a request and be assigned to this without a condition for her, such as the expiry of her right to the agreed bridal gift.Of a (Khul) divorce under Iranian law and the legal consequence linked to it under Iranian law that the woman owes the man a compensation is,
- Contrary to the man - there is no question of these circumstances.
As far as the man should be assumed that the woman to
Iranian
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the man's entitlement to the bridal gift to be able to separate, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this cannot be connected to this in the Dutch legal order due to a struggle with public order (Article 10: 6 of the Dutch Civil Code).Another opinion would come down to the fact that the woman who owns Dutch nationality and has been living and working in the Netherlands for a long time is in fact impeded in her freedom to separate from the man through a financial sanction.It must therefore be assumed that the woman has not revealed her right to the bridal gift.
5.18.
What follows from the marriage certificate and the provisions of Article 1082 of the Iranian civil law is that the woman is entitled and owner of the bridal gift from the day of marriage closure.That bridal gift must be qualified as a claim Sui Generis (ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2019: 3968).As a result, contrary to what the man states, the claim of the woman under the bridal gift does not fall in a possible matrimonial property community that would exist between the parties, but the right to the wedding gift to the woman comes.
Size of bridal gift (complaint 6)
5.19.The man states that the size of the bridal gift is insufficiently determined.He argues that although the court is based on a bridal gift of 30 Golden Bahar Azadi gold coins, that description has no real meaning because it does not show what the size and weight of the coins are.According to the man, it is therefore not sufficiently clear what the value of the coins should be and the advanced bridal gift is too indefinite to be assigned.
5.20.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the bridal gift, insofar as it concerns the gold coins mentioned by the man, is sufficiently determined.In the marriage certificate, parties are 30
full-size
Bahar Azadi Golden Coins agreed.This specifies which, at the time of the marriage, coins it was.The man has not stated sufficiently and it has not been shown that there was uncertainty with the parties about the size and weight of those coins at the time of the marriage closure.The mere circumstance that after the introduction of the Bahar Azadi, Gold Coins of which have (have) existed, as the man states, is insufficient to be able to conclude that this has caused a lack of clarity about how large and of what weight the inThe marriage certificate described are gold coins.The court's decision that the man 30 Bahar Azadi must meet the woman's gold coins must therefore be ratified.
Indexation Bridal Gift (complaint 7)
5.21.
The man states that he does not owe the part of the bridal gift that is 15 million rial, and that if it is judged otherwise, this amount should not be indexed.The man argues that the agreed bridal gift is symbolic and not subject to inflation correction, at least that the claimed indexation is not properly substantiated.
5.22.
The court ignores the man's position that the bridal gift has only a symbolic meaning.As considered above, follows from the marriage certificate and from Article 1082 of the Iranian civil law that the woman is entitled and owner of the bridal gift.In the light of it, the man insufficiently substantiated that it is different in this case.
5.23.
The marriage certificate includes an amount of 15 million Rial as part of the bridal gift.The woman has requested to grant her an indexed amount of 15 million Rial in connection with this.However, the woman did not explain for what reason would be an indexation.In addition, it has not been explained about what period and how the indexation should be calculated.In the light of that, her request to order the man to pay an indexed amount of 15 million RIAL is not sufficiently substantiated.The Court will therefore condemn the man to pay the amount of 15 million RIAL in the marriage certificate.
6
The conclusion
6.1.
The Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision insofar as it stipulates that the man must pay the index of 15 million Rial to the woman and decide again.For the rest, the Court of Appeal will confirm the contested decision, insofar as the Court of Appeal's opinion.
6.2.
Because the parties are spouses and the dispute is related to this, the Court will compensate for the costs of the proceedings on appeal, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
7
The decision
The Court of Appeal, lawful on appeal
Destroys the decision of the Northern Netherlands District Court, location Groningen, of 7 June 2022, insofar as it stipulates in the Dictum under 3.5 that the man must pay the index of 15 million Rial to the woman,
and to that extent decisive:
stipulates that the man has to pay an amount of 15 million rial to the woman;
declares this decision to be enforced in stock;
ratifies the decision of the Northern Netherlands District Court, location Groningen, of 7 June 2022, insofar as the Court's opinion is subject to the rest of the Court;
stipulates that each party bears its own costs of the proceedings on appeal;
Disives the lake or otherwise requested.This decision was given by Mrs.C. Koopman, L. van Dijk and C. Coster, assisted by E.V.Hendrikse as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 20 June 2023.