ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2021: 14019
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2021: 14019
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
21-10-2021
Date of publication
20-12-2021
Case
AWB 21/4278
Jurisdiction
Alien right
Special characteristics
Ground shop
,, "
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Personal contribution costs COA shelter - penalty IND is not an intangible compensation and counts in determining assets
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Court of The Hague
Seat Amsterdam
Administrative law
Case number: AWB 21/4278
[V number]
Decision of the Single Chamber of Immigration Affairs of November 22, 2021 in the case between
[plaintiff],
born on [date of birth] 1982, plaintiff
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The board of the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA), Defendant
(authorized representative: A. Tardjopawiro).
Process
By decision of 15 July 2021 (the primary decision), the defendant determined that the plaintiff must pay a reimbursement of costs for the reception (personal contribution) of € 4,673.33.
On July 19, 2021, the court received the claimant's appeal against this decision.The defendant has submitted a statement of defense.
The investigation at the hearing took place on October 21, 2021. Plaintiff and her authorized representative did not appear at the hearing.The defendant is represented by the aforementioned authorized representative.The court closed the investigation at the hearing.
Consideration
Facts and circumstances
1.1.
The plaintiff has been staying with her 9 -year -old daughter in reception locations of the COA since July 2018.
1.2.
On March 9, 2021, the plaintiff received a penalty of € 19,600 from the Immigration and Naturalization Service (IND) for the late decision in a residence procedure.Plaintiff did not report the penalty payment she received to the COA.
1.3.
The defendant then received the report from the IND that the IND paid the penalty for the plaintiff.
1.4.
In the contested decision, the defendant decided that the Regulation on Personal Contribution asylum seekers with income and assets (REBA) applies to the claimant on the reference month March 1, 2021 to March 31, 2021. The defendant has set the personal contribution for the plaintiff and its daughter at € 806, 98 per month, which - taking into account an exempt capital and a power reduction per month - amounts to a total amount of € 4,673.33.
The assessment of the dispute
2. It is not in dispute between the parties that if the plaintiff has a capital greater than the power limit, it owes a fee in the costs of the reception.
1
There is a dispute between the parties whether the plaintiff has (had) capital above the power limit and whether she should therefore pay a personal contribution.
Intangible compensation?
3.1.
The plaintiff first of all argues that the penalty is a fee for the suffering that was affected by the long decision period.The penalty must therefore be regarded as a compensation for intangible damage, which means that the amount is relevant to the plaintiff's assets for the adoption of the personal contribution, according to the claimant.
3.2.
Pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 2, preamble and under e of the REBA, it is not taken into account as equity: reimbursements for intangible damage to the extent that this, in view of the nature and amount of the benefit, from the point of view of granting the granting of grantingbenefits as referred to in Article 9 of the RVA is justified.
3.3.
The court is of the opinion that the penalty paid to the claimant cannot be seen as such an immaterial compensation.In contrast to what the plaintiff argues, the penalty does not concern any compensation for the suffering that the plaintiff has been affected.A penalty as referred to in Section 4:17 of the General Administrative Law Act is solely aimed at stimulating the administrative body to decide in time and can therefore not be regarded as or equated with compensation.
2
An awarded penalty does not stand in the way of compensation for material and/or immaterial damage as a result of slow decision -making by the administrative body.
3
3.4.
The penalty must therefore be regarded as assets for the adoption of the personal contribution and does not fall within the exception for intangible compensation in Article 7 paragraph 2, preamble and under e of the REBA.
Debt
4.1.
Secondly, the claimants argue that the defendant wrongly did not include her debts in the adoption of her assets.
4.2.This professional ground also does not succeed.Because the plaintiff has failed to report the penalty payment received, the defendant was unable to take the debts set into account when determining the amount of the assets.But afterwards it has not been shown that the plaintiff has debts.Plaintiff refers to bank statements submitted by her, but the debts do not appear from this.For example, it is not clear what kind of debts it is, with whom the claimant would have debts and within what period the claimant would have to pay off these debts.Plaintiff has not substantiated anything in this context.The defendant therefore did not have to take the plaintiff's debts into account when determining her assets.
Conclusion
5.1.
The grounds of appeal do not lead to the annulment of the contested decision.This means that the defendant has correctly established the defendant's assets and the personal contribution of € 4,673.33.
5.2.
The appeal is unfounded.
5.3.
There is no reason for a proceedings order.
Decision
The court,
declares the appeal unfounded.
This statement was made by J.H.Broek, Judge, in the presence of J.A.E.Delhaes, clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on November 22, 2021.
clerk
right
Copy sent to the parties on:
Remedial agent
Within four weeks of the day of sending it, the parties can appeal against this decision to the Administrative Law Division of the Council of State.In addition to the requirements that the notice of appeal must meet on the basis of Article 6: 5 of the Awb (such as submitting a copy of this decision), the notice of appeal must contain one or more grievances under Article 85, first paragraph, of the Vw 2000.Article 6: 6 of the Awb (repair absence) does not apply.
1
This is based on the Regulations for asylum seekers and other categories of Aliens 2005 (RVA) and the Reba.
2
See the decision of the Central Appeals Board of 7 May 2015, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2015: 1429.
3
See also the ruling of the Central Appeals Tribunal of 7 May 2015, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2015: 1429 and the Administrative Law Division of the Council of State of 8 July 2020, ECLI: NL: RVS: 2020: 1560.