ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2021: 195
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2021: 195
Instance
Central Appeal Council
Date of judgment
18-01-2021
Date of publication
02-02-2021
Case
18/2360 PW
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
Appeal
Contents indication
Withdrawal.No main residence at benefit address.No violation of trust.The Commission has rightly withdrawn the assistance with retroactive effect on the ground that the appellant did not report that he did not have his main residence at the benefit address.The right cannot be determined.Concrete and verifiable information about when the appellant was missing in the period to be assessed where.The principle of trust has not been violated.The appellant has not made it plausible that the customer manager and the enforcement specialist have made commitments.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
18 2360 PW, 18/2361 PW
Date of judgment: January 18, 2021
Central Appeal Council
Single room
Decision on the appeal against the decision of the Amsterdam District Court of 21 March 2018, 17/6427, 17/6355 (attacked judgment)
Parties:
[Appellant] in [place of residence] (appellant)
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of Amsterdam (College)
Process
On behalf of the appellant, Mr. J.S.Kite, lawyer, appeal lodged.
The Commission has submitted a statement of defense.
Mr.A. Jawaheri, lawyer, has acted as a subsequent authorized representative of the appellant.
The investigation at the hearing took place on 11 February 2020. Jawaheri was published on behalf of the appellant.The college has not been represented.
The investigation at the hearing was suspended.
Further documents have been submitted on behalf of the appellant.The college responded to this.
A further investigation took place at the hearing on December 7, 2020.The appellant was published, assisted by T. Vinke, office companion of his authorized representative.The college has not been represented.
Consideration
1. The Council is based on the following facts and circumstances that are important in these proceedings.
1.1.
Since 30 March 2011, the appellant received assistance, most recently under the Participation Act (PW) to the standard for a single person at address A (benefit address), where he lived anti -square.
1.2.
In December 2016 and February 2017, three postpieces sent by the college to the benefit address were returned with the mention "Pland demolished/not yet built".As a result, an enforcement specialist from the Control of Enforcement Work and Income of the Municipality of Amsterdam (Enforcement Specialist) has conducted an investigation into the legality of the assistance provided to the appellant.The enforcement specialist did, among other things, file research and obtained information from the Stadgenoot housing corporation.The information from the housing corporation meant that the house had been demolished at the benefit address and that the rental term of the last tenant was September 22, 2016.The enforcement specialist also contacted the appellant by telephone on 8 March 2017 and heard the appellant at the office on 15 March 2017.The findings of this investigation were laid down in a report of 16 March 2017.
1.3.
The investigation results led to the Commission by decision of 21 March 2017, after objection maintained by decision of 26 September 2017 (contested decision 1), to withdraw the assistance of the appellant from 24 September 2016.The Commission has based the contested decision 1 on the basis that the appellant has violated the obligation to provide information on him by not providing information about the change in his living situation.The appellant does not have his main residence at the benefit address.As a result, the right to assistance cannot be determined.There is no question of noticing that he should only report to the college if he had found a new home.
1.4.
The appellant submitted an application for assistance on 23 March 2017.By decision of
March 28, 2017, from 23 March 2017, the Commission again assigned assistance to the standard for a single person with a reduction with 10% of the net minimum wage, because the appellant used the social relief at that time and from 1 April 2017Until the appellant will use the night care with a reduction of 20% of the net minimum wage.The appellant has led to that decision that he wants to be eligible for assistance from 24 September 2016.By separate decision of 26 September 2017 (contested decision 2), the Municipal Executive declared this objection unfounded.The Commission has taken the position that there are no special circumstances that justify the assistance with retroactive effect.2. In the attacked decision, the court declared the appeals against the contested decisions unfounded.
3. On appeal, the appellant turned against the attacked judgment on the grounds to be discussed below.
4. The council comes to the following assessment.
Repeal
4.1.
The period to be assessed runs from 24 September 2016 to the date of the withdrawal decision, March 21, 2017.
4.2.
The decision to withdraw assistance is a decision for the person concerned, whereby it is up to the assistance body to gain the necessary knowledge about the relevant facts.This means that the burden to make it plausible that the conditions for withdrawal have been met in principle in the assistance body.
4.3.
The question where someone has their home address must be answered on the basis of concrete facts and circumstances.The person concerned is obliged to provide correct and complete information about his home address, because this is an essential fact for the assessment of (the continuation of) the right to assistance.If the interested party does not meet the obligation to provide information, this is a ground for withdrawal of assistance if as a result of the violation cannot be established whether, and if so to what extent, the interested party has the right to assistance.
4.4.
It is not in dispute that the appellant no longer lived at the benefit address from 24 September 2016 and that he did not report this to the college.
4.5.
The appellant has argued that the withdrawal of social assistance is contrary to the principle of trust.The appellant previously had to leave an anti -squat home.According to the appellant, his former customer manager then announced that the appellant only had to pass on this relocation as soon as he had a new home.Because of that commitment and because the appellant has always ensured that he quickly had a new home in the past, he was allowed to trust that he should only report this time to the college if he had found a new house.In this confidence, he was strengthened during the investigation that led to the withdrawal decision of 21 March 2017 by a statement by the enforcement specialist that, as an appellant before March 17, 2017 or at the latest within
Would give up a home address for 30 days, the problem would have been solved.
4.6.
This professional ground does not succeed.For a successful appeal to the principle of trust, it is in any case required that the person concerned makes it plausible that commitments or other statements have been made on the part of the government or conducts from which the person concerned could and may reasonably deduce in the given circumstances if and, soYes, how the administrative body would exercise a competence in a specific case (judgment of 31 December 2019, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2019: 4351).The appellant did not succeed in that burden of proof.He has not provided any objective and verifiable data that shows that the former customer manager has made the commitment he has made.The available data, of which in particular the registration of the College of the College of the College of the appellant with employees of the Municipality of Amsterdam, does not contain any starting points for this.Moreover, upon inquiry, the former customer manager stated that he does not consider it plausible that he has given the impression that the appellant only had to report the no longer had to live at his address if the appellant had found a new home.Upon inquiry, the enforcement specialist stated by the college that she was clear in the conversation with the appellant on 15 March 2017 about her position and the advice to withdraw the assistance.She cannot remember that she said something about 30 days and that the appellant could come up with a home address within 30 days during her investigation.According to her statement, she told the appellant that another home address or another place of residence could still be included in the investigation as an appellant before closing the report and would come with a different address before taking the withdrawal decision.On March 16, 2017, the appellant informed her by telephone that he did not yet have a new place of residence in [place of residence].But also apart from that, the appellant was not allowed to deduce from this announcement that, in case he would have had a new home at the time, withdrawal for the previous period would not take place.This means that the appellant could not have the justified expectation that he did not have to report to the college that he no longer lived at the benefit address.The appellant has therefore violated the legal obligation to provide information on him.
4.7.The appellant has repeated on appeal that his right to assistance can be determined.This professional ground has no purpose.The appellant also did not submit objective and verifiable data on appeal that makes it plausible that if he had fulfilled the obligation to provide information, he would have been entitled to full or additional assistance during the period to be assessed.The available data do not offer any starting points for this.For example, the report of the telephone conversation with the appellant on 8 March 2017 shows that the appellant stated that he stayed at various addresses in and outside [place of residence] during the period to be assessed.His bank details show that from 21 September 2016 the appellant no longer pinned in [place of residence] and that most PIN transactions have taken place in [place name].The mere statement that the appellant mainly stayed in [place of residence] is insufficient to be able to determine the right to assistance.That is no different due to the announcement of the father of the appellant's girlfriend to the enforcement specialist on 31 March 2017 that he, who guided father, guided the appellant and the appellant, to pin once a month in [place name], so that the appellant had cash.Concrete and verifiable information about when the appellant was missing in the period to be assessed where.In view of this, the Commission was right to take the position that as a result of the violation of the obligation to provide information, the right to assistance could no longer be determined.The Commission was therefore obliged to withdraw the assistance of the appellant on 24 September 2016 on the basis of Article 54, third paragraph, of the PW.
New request
4.8.
The appellant has against the refusal with him retroactively rather than per
March 23, 2017 to provide assistance, no independent grounds.
Conclusion
4.9.
It follows from 4.1 to 4.7 that the appeal does not succeed, so that the attacked decision must be confirmed.
5. There is no reason for a conviction in the costs of the proceedings.
DECISION
The Central Appeal Council confirms the attacked decision.
This statement was made by M. ter Brugge, in the presence of A.A.H.Ibrahim as a clerk.The decision was pronounced in public on January 18, 2021.
(signed) M. ter Brugge
(signed) A.A.H.Ibrahim