ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 3264
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2022: 3264
Instance
Rotterdam District Court
Date of judgment
15-04-2022
Date of publication
02-05-2022
Case
Rot 21/4612
Jurisdiction
Social security law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Assistance.The defendant has not made it plausible that the plaintiff has a webshop on which she has offered products for sale, nor that products have been sold through the internet.Nor has it made it plausible that it has violated the obligation to provide information.The contested decision is not carefully prepared and not properly motivated.The appeal is well -founded and the defendant must again decide on the objections.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
Rotterdam District Court
Administrative law
Case number: Rot 21/4612
Decision of the single Chamber of 15 April 2022 in the case between
[name of plaintiff], from [place], plaintiff,
(authorized representative: A. Hashem Jawaheri),
and
The College of Mayor and Aldermen of Schiedam, defendant,
(authorized representative: [name of authorized representative]).
Process
With the decision of 1 February 2021 (the primary decision 1), the defendant suspended the right to assistance of the plaintiff on the basis of the Participation Act (PW) with effect from 1 February 2021.
With the decision of 17 February 2021 (the primary decision 2), the defendant terminated the right to assistance of the plaintiff with effect from 1 February 2021 (read: withdrawn).
With the decision of 26 August 2021 (the contested decision), the defendant declared the claimant's objections to the primary decisions 1 and 2 unfounded.
Plaintiff has appealed against the contested decision.
On December 15, 2021, a first session took place in this professional case.Plaintiff has appeared, assisted by her agent.The defendant has been represented by his authorized representative.
The court suspended the investigation at the hearing, without discussing the content of the case, in order to give the plaintiff the opportunity to submit (further) grounds of appeal against the advice of the Objections Committee of 10 August on 25 October 20212021, on which the contested decision is based.
Plaintiff submitted (further) land by profession on December 20, 2021.
The defendant responded by letter of 18 January 2022.
A second session took place in this professional case on 2 March 2022.Plaintiff has appeared, assisted by her agent.The defendant has been represented by his authorized representative.At the end of the hearing, the court closed the investigation.
Consideration
Introduction
1.1.
Since January 20, 2020, plaintiff received social assistance benefits on the basis of the PW.
1.2.
Following a report from the primary department that the plaintiff is difficult to reach and would offer products on Instagram and Facebook, the defendant started an investigation into the legality of her benefit.In the context of this investigation, the defendant asked the claimant to submit various information, conducted an investigation on the internet, conducted a home visit and heard the claimant.
1.3.
The defendant proved to be the following during the investigation.Plaintiff e-mails with the e-mail address [name e-mail address 1].There is an Instagram account with the name [name Instagram account] (hereinafter: the Instagram account), which contains photos of the plaintiff as well as a link to a website with the web address [name website] (hereinafter: the website).This website is linked to the Eiser's home address and on the website is the e-mail address [name of e-mail address 2] as well as a photo of a woman who is very similar to the plaintiff with as a caption: [name of person], CEO.According to the defendant, the Instagram account and the website belong to the claimant.
1.4.
By letter of 18 January 2021, the defendant asked the claimant to hand in various documents before 1 February 2021, including an administration of its internet sales.Because the plaintiff has not submitted this administration, the defendant suspended the right to assistance of the plaintiff with effect from 1 February 2021 at the primary decision 1.In the primary decision 1, the defendant gave the plaintiff the opportunity to submit the requested administration before 7 February 2021.This did not happen.However, the defendant did not have a cancellation of the assistance on the basis of Article 54, fourth paragraph, of the PW.
1.5.
With effect from 1 February 2021, the defendant did, however, withdrawn the right to assistance from the plaintiff on the basis of Article 54, third paragraph, of the PW.
The contested decision
2. In the contested decision, the defendant declared the claimant's objections to the primary decisions 1 and 2, with reference to the advice of the Objections Committee of 10 August 2021, unfounded.
2.1.The following is stated on the suspension in the advice of the Objections Committee.The objection to the primary decision 1 is inadmissible due to the lack of litigation, now that the suspension is not given the result of withdrawal on the basis of Article 54, paragraph 4, of the PW, but of withdrawal on the basis of Article 54,third paragraph, of the pw.That is why the plaintiff cannot achieve what she wants to achieve with it with her objection to the primary decision 1.
2.2.
The following states the following on the withdrawal (on the basis of Article 54, third paragraph, of the PW).The objection to the primary decision 2 is unfounded.Plaintiff has violated her obligation to provide information by not reporting to the defendant that she has carried out business economic activities through the Instagram account and the website in the form of sale of articles in the Beauty Industry.Now that the plaintiff has not submitted any administration of these sales activities on request, as a result of the violation of the obligation to provide information, the right to assistance of the plaintiff cannot be established.That is why the defendant had to withdraw the right to assistance from the plaintiff from 1 February 2021.According to the defendant, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) was not violated during the investigation.
Judgement
The suspension
3. The court finds that the contested decision states that the objection to the primary decision 1 (the suspension decision) is unfounded, while the considerations in the advice of the Objections Committee, which, according to the contested decision, followed, it followsObjection is inadmissible due to the lack of interests.This means that the dictum of this part of the contested decision is not supported by the considerations (in the advice of the Objections Committee) that underlie this.In view of this, the contested decision cannot be maintained to that extent.
The withdrawal
4. The plaintiff cannot unite with the withdrawal of her right to assistance and leads the following against it.She states that she did not violate her obligation to provide information because she has not sold beauty products through the Instagram account and also via the website.She is therefore unable to consult an administration.In this context, it primarily argues that the Instagram account and the website do not belong to it.In the alternative, insofar as it would be assumed that the Instagram account and the website do belong to the claimant, it argues in this context that the defendant has not made it plausible that products have actually been sold, which it also denies.According to the plaintiff, selling (not just promoting) products via social media is unusual and the website cannot be classified as a webshop, now that it contains no possibility to place online orders.The defendant did not make an attempt to order a product via the website, nor has it provided by the plaintiff's purchase and sale of products, where it is important that no trade stock was found during the home visit.The plaintiff also states that the investigation was conducted in violation of Article 8 of the ECHR.The defendant went too far in his investigation.Moreover, there was no "informed consent" for the home visit.Finally, the plaintiff has argued that the course of events is contrary to the principle of "fair play", now that a full file was not sent directly in the objection phase and the contested decision was initially added a wrong advice from the objections committee.
5. The court considers that the period to be assessed runs from 1 February 2021 (the date with effect from which the right to assistance has been withdrawn) until 17 February 2021 (the date of the primary decision 2).
6.1.
A decision to withdraw the right to assistance is a taxing decision.This means that it is up to the defendant to gain the necessary knowledge about relevant facts and circumstances and that the defendant has the burden of proof with regard to the question of whether the conditions for the withdrawal of the right to assistance have been withdrawn.
6.2.
From the contested decision and the explanation of the defendant at the hearing, the court concludes that the violation of the obligation to provide information, according to the defendant, has consisted of not reporting its sales of beauty products via the internet (more specifically via the Instagram account and/or the website)And the resulting income.
6.3.Based on the case law of the Central Appeals Board (the Council), for example the ruling of 19 February 2019, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2019: 573, it follows that a social assistance recipient must report his sales of goods on the internet - unless there areis of incidental sale of private goods - and from the earnings obtained from it.After all, these merits must be considered as income.
6.4.
According to also settled case law of the Council, for example of 18 May 2021, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2021: 1179, follows that violation of the obligation to provide information provides a legal basis for withdrawal of assistance if it cannot be established as a result of it or and, soYes, to what extent the person concerned is in the need for assistance.It is then up to the person concerned to make it plausible that if he had met the obligation to provide information at the time, he would have been entitled to assistance over the period in question.
6.5.
Tailored to this case, the above means that it is up to the defendant to make it plausible that the plaintiff sold products via the internet in the period to be assessed and received income from it (or could have obtained it) and did not report this to the defendant (seeFor a further elaboration of that burden of proof considerations 8.2.1. And 8.2.2.).If the defendant has succeeded in making this plausible, it is then on the plaintiff's way to make it plausible that, despite the violation of the obligation to provide information, it is entitled to assistance on the period to be assessed.
7. In the contested decision, the defendant took the position that the Instagram account and the website belong to the claimant.Plaintiff has disputed this position of the defendant.However, the court sees reason to leave this position of the defendant and what the plaintiff has argued against this in terms of content.The same applies to the plaintiff's position that the defendant with his investigation has infringed its rights from Article 8 of the ECHR.The reason for this is that even if the defendant would be fully in favor of these points - in the sense that it would be considered that the Instagram account and the website belong to the plaintiff and that there is no violation of Article 8 of the ECHR during the investigationtook place - the contested decision, insofar as the withdrawal has been maintained, cannot be maintained.
8. Insofar as it would be assumed that the Instagram account and the website belong to the claimant, the following applies.
8.1.
The court first of all states that having an Instagram account or a website is not covered by the obligation to provide information.This will be different if activities are carried out with that Instagram account or with that website that can (can be gained income, such as selling products.As out of consideration 6.5.Follows, such online sales activities will have to be made plausible in a case where it concerns withdrawal of assistance by the defendant.
8.2.1.
If the defendant makes it plausible that a social assistance recipient has a website that can be regarded as a "webshop", in the opinion of the court, this justifies the premium that that assistance recipient sells products through that website and thus generates (or can generate) income.It is then up to the social assistance recipient to make the opposite plausible, which means more concrete that he has to make it plausible that no sales have taken place via that website.If a social assistance recipient does not succeed, the defendant has complied with his duty to make it plausible that the social assistance recipient has sold products via the internet and has obtained (or could have obtained income) and, in the absence of a report, has violated his obligation to provide information (See 6.5.).
8.2.2.
If a website of a social assistance recipient cannot be regarded as a webshop, the defendant will have to make it plausible on the basis of additional facts and circumstances that this social assistance recipient has sold products via the internet.The defendant succeeds in this and if the assistance recipient of those sales has not reported, the defendant has complied with his duty to make it plausible that the social assistance recipient has violated his obligation to provide information (see 6.5.).
8.3.
In view of the above, it must be the first to assess whether the Instagram account or the website can be regarded as a webshop.To be able to speak of a webshop, there must in any case be an online environment, in which concrete products are offered for sale at a certain price and can be purchased and paid directly.
8.4.In the opinion of the court, the Instagram account cannot be classified as a webshop.Although the research shows that the Instagram account has many followers (more than 22,000), that a link to the website has been placed with it with the captions "shop and retail trade" and "supplier of beauty products" and that photos of three productsstanding, but it has not shown that products are offered for sale through that Instagram account and can be purchased and paid directly.Instagram is also not suitable for this.
8.5.
Furthermore, the court is of the opinion that the defendants (in the file) research results do not provide sufficient grounds for the conclusion that the website must be regarded as a webshop.Although the research shows that it is a "beauty -related" website, it has not shown that beauty products are actually offered for sale via that website and can be purchased and paid directly.For example, the screen images of the website contained in the file contains that that website contains: a catalog of the specific products that can be purchased with a quotation thereof (for example, the products of which photos are placed on the Instagram account), a direct possibility toA concrete product to purchase or order (for example by means of a 'shopping basket') and a direct payment option (for example via iDeal or a credit card).However, that website, according to the screenshots, contains a contact form and the e-mail address [name of e-mail address 2] and a telephone number are stated on it, but these general contact options do not make this website by its nature yet.The aforementioned captions for the link to the website on the Instagram account are also insufficient to regard the website as a webshop, now that these captions do not affect that it has not been shown that products are actually offered for sale on that website.The fact that the name of the website can be found on bol.com is also not enough to regard the website as a webshop, now that the defendant has not investigated whether - and therefore has not established that - there is actually of the website via bol.comBeauty products from sale are offered for sale and can be purchased.
8.6.
Now that it has not been shown that the Instagram account and the website can be regarded as a webshop, it is on the defendant's way to make it plausible on the basis of additional facts and circumstances that beauty products have been sold via the internet.The defendant did not succeed in this.For example, the defendant did not investigate whether - and therefore not established that - by contacting us by means of a contact option on the website or the Instagram account Beauty Products can be purchased.Furthermore, the defendant has not established that the plaintiff has received credits available to it on a bank account that can be related to online sales of beauty products.Also the home visit that was taken to the claimant's home in December 2020 has not yielded any results that indicate online sales of beauty products, such as a product stock.
8.7.
In view of the above, the court ruled that the defendants' research results (consisting of the screen images in the file) do not provide a sufficient basis for the conclusion that the Instagram account and/or the website selling beauty products have taken place.
9. On the basis of the foregoing, the court concludes that, even if it was assumed that the Instagram account and the website belong to the claimant, the defendant has not made it plausible that plaintiff sold beauty products via the internet in the period to be assessed and from thishas obtained (or could have obtained).This means that the defendant has not made it plausible that the plaintiff has violated her obligation to provide information, by not reporting sales activities.The contested decision insofar as the primary decision 2 has been maintained is therefore not based on careful preparation, nor on a sound reasons, so that the contested decision cannot stand in that respect.
Conclusion
10. The appeal is well -founded.The court will annul the contested decision for violation of Articles 3: 2 and 7:12 of the Awb.In view of this and on what was considered below with regard to the method of dispute resolution (namely: "Assignment of the new decision"), the court leaves what the plaintiff has put forward against the contested decision.
Dispute resolution
11.1.Regarding the suspension, the court considers as follows.At the hearing on 2 March 2022, the defendant indicated that the objection to the primary decision 1 should have been declared inadmissible and not, as happened in the contested decision, unfounded.To this end, the defendant takes the position, referring to the advice of the Objections Committee, that the plaintiff has no interest in her objection to the primary decision 1, since the suspension has not been followed by a withdrawal on the basis of Article 54, fourth paragraph, ofThe PW, but due to a stand -alone withdrawal on the basis of Article 54, third paragraph, of the PW.The court follows the defendants' position that the objection to the primary decision 1 should be declared inadmissible due to the lack of interests.After all, the plaintiff still has an interest in a substantive assessment of her objection to the primary decision 1. This interest lies in the granting of it, in the additional notice of objection of 12 February 2021 request for reimbursement of the costs incurred in the objection phase.In this context, the court refers to the settlement of the council, such as the ruling of 28 September 2020, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2020: 2403.The defendant should therefore have assessed the objection to the primary decision 1 substantively.Now that the defendant has not done that, while it is up to the defendant to be the first to be substantive on the objection, the court sees no possibility to maintain the legal consequences of the contested decision insofar as it relates to the suspension andNo reason to provide for this part of the case yourself.
11.2.
Regarding the withdrawal, the court considers as follows.The court sees no possibility of maintaining the legal consequences of the contested decision insofar as it relates to the withdrawal, now that the defendant has not restored the aforementioned defends in this part of the contested decision in the professional phase.The court sees no reason to provide for this part of the case, because it is up to the defendant to choose whether he wants to revoke the primary decision 2 or would like to conduct further investigation into any sales activities of the plaintiff and, in case he choosesBefore the latter and on that basis he would come to the conclusion that the plaintiff carried out sales activities in the period to be assessed, to properly motivate this in a decision.
11.3.
Furthermore, the court sees no reason to apply an administrative loop, because, in view of the nature of the defects, the way in which it must be restored and the nature and form of a possible follow -up procedure for a new unfavorable decision for the plaintiff, notIt can be seen that the plaintiff gets a definitive answer in her case rather than if the defendant is instructed to take a new decision on the objections, within a period of six weeks of the day of sending this ruling.The court will therefore instruct the defendant, taking into account this decision, to take a new decision on the objections to the primary decisions 1 and 2 within the aforementioned period.
Proceedings
12. Because the appeal is well -founded, the court sees reason to order the defendant to pay the costs of proceedings appealed by the claimant.On the basis of the Decree on the Legal Aid Decree, the court sets these costs at € 1,518 (1 point for submitting the notice of appeal and 1 point before the appearance of 2 March 2022, on the basis of the Decree on Payment Costs.A value per point of € 759 and weighting factor 1).Before appearing at the hearing of December 15, 2021, the Court of Plaintiff does not grant a point, since this appeal case was not discussed in terms of content at that hearing and a different appeal case of the plaintiff was discussed at that session (ROT 21/4611), for which procedural act the act actCourt in the decision in that other appeal case the plaintiff has awarded a point.
13. No court fees are levied from the plaintiff, so that the defendant's compensation for court fees are not an issue.
Decision
The court:
- explains the appeal;
- annules the contested decision;
- contributes to the defendant within six weeks of the day of sending this decision to take a new decision on the objections with due observance of this decision;
- orders the defendant to pay the plaintiff's costs of the claim to an amount of € 1,518.
This statement was made by F.A.Groeneveld, judge, in the presence of C.I.Kieviet, clerk.The decision was made in public on April 15, 2022.
clerk
right
A copy of this ruling has been sent to the parties on:
Remedial agentAn appeal can be lodged against this decision within six weeks of the day of shipment thereof.