ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2023: 1443
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2023: 1443
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Date of judgment
08-03-2023
Date of publication
20-03-2023
Case
C/13/728791/KG SA 23-56
Jurisdiction
Commitment law
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
,, "
Summary proceedings
Contents indication
Summary proceedings.Care and lease agreement in cover house.The defendant cannot take the last step towards independence/self -reliance.Due to persistent and serious nuisance, evacuation is allocated.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Private Law Department, Preliminary Relief Judicial Civil Procurement
Case number/Role number: C/13/728791/KG SA 23-56 IHJK/MVG
Judgment in summary proceedings of 8 March 2023
in the case of
the foundation
Permens Foundation
,, "
Based in Amsterdam,
Plaintiff by summons of 8 February 2023,
Lawyer L.L.M.M.Smeets in Amsterdam,
in return for
the foundation
Central Administration Foundation for Facilities in the field of health and welfare care
,, "
Based in Amsterdam,
In her capacity as administrator of
[defendant]
,, "
residing in [residence],
defendant,
Lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam.
Plaintiff will hereinafter be referred to as Stichting Permens.The defendant will hereinafter be referred to as the administrator and/or [defendant].
1
The procedure
1.1.
During the oral treatment on 20 February 2023, Stichting Permens explained the claim.Mr.Hashem Jawaheri has defended [defendant] on behalf of [defendant].The Permens Foundation has brought productions.Initially, judgment was determined on March 6, 2023. The parties then reported that a judgment will be given on March 8, 2023.
1.2.
The oral treatment were present:
- on the side of Stichting Permens: [name 1], ambulatory supervisor and care coordinator, [name 2], employee care and nuisance at Stadgenoot, with mr. Smeets;
- On the side of [defendant]: A. Hashem Jawaheri.
2. The facts
2.1.
Permens Foundation is a care institution that has the mission to break the circle on dependence, powerlessness and exclusion of its clients by guiding them in order to be able to live and live independently in a sustainable way.
2.2.
In 2015, Stichting Permens started supervising [defendant].In the initial phase of care provision, [defendant] lived in a so -called restart studio at the [location], which he rented from Stichting Permens.
2.3.
The Permens Foundation rents from housing association Stadgenoot De Woning at the [address] (hereinafter: the house).It is a so -called folding house: a home that is initially sublet by Stichting Permens to the client in the context of the (residential) guidance, whereby the guidance is scaled up step by step, with the intention that the client is completely independent in the homewill live and the lease agreement between Stichting Permens and Stadgenoot 'Fold' in the name of the client.
2.4.
On the basis of a on April 1, 2020 between (the legal predecessor of) Stichting Permens and [defendant] closed “
Supervision agreement independent living space as part of care and services Foundation Volksbond Streetcornerwork
"Stichting Permens rents the house to [defendant] from that day.In this agreement, insofar as relevant, the following stipulated:
“"
The parties take the following eligible:
(...)
The landlord is explicitly not aimed at renting homes as a regular landlord.
Only within the framework of this care and services makes the lessor available for living space, whereby the Zorgelement is paramount at all times, which is unambiguously recognized by the tenant.
(...)
By offering the living space combined with care and services, the lessor offers the possibility to the client / tenant to live independently with this care and services.
The tenant needs care and services in daily life.In connection with national developments, this care and services will be regulated in a separate agreement signed with the Landlord Care and Services, see Appendix 2.
(...)
In the relationship between the tenant and the landlord, the caregiver will be dominant.The care and services by the lessor and the renting of the living space are inextricably linked.The sublease agreement will therefore be terminated when the Care and Services Agreement ends.
(...)
The tenant endorses the reasonableness of the above and is willing to rent the rented property under these conditions.(...)
. "
2.5.The parties signed an agreement for care and services on 6 April 2020, which took effect on 1 April 2020.This agreement stipulates that the Permens Foundation can cancel the agreement if one or more for [defendant] from the Agreement arising from the Agreement is not or is not properly met by him, or if there is another serious reason, such as committing a punishablefact by [defendant].
2.6.
The guidance by Stichting Permens has focused primarily on supporting daytime activities, phasing methadone use and keeping unstable contacts at a distance.
2.7.
Since March 2021, the Permens Foundation has been receiving complaints from one local resident about nuisance caused by [defendant].The symptoms are about addicted people to stay in or around the home and about noise pollution (during the night hours).
2.8.
By letters of 14 April and 22 July 2022, Stichting Permens [defendant] gave a first or second warning.In these letters, in summary, it is stated that [defendant] is difficult to supervise, he repeatedly does not comply with guidance agreements and he difficult to cooperate in solving nuisance complaints.
2.9.
By letter of 6 October 2022, Stichting Permens [defendant] gave a third and final warning.In summary, it states that he must stop causing nuisance, failing which the Permens Foundation will terminate the care agreement.The letter explains that this means that the sublease agreement will also end and thus the right to use the home for [defendant] will also end.
2.10.
On October 24, 2022, the front door of the home of [defendant] was set on fire.He reported this to the police on 25 October 2022.The Permens Foundation has given [defendant] a so-called time-out in which he was temporarily transferred to the restart studio at the [location].During the time-out, [defendant] was not allowed to be present in the home.He did not comply with this.
2.11.
By letter of 24 November 2022, Stadgenoot, insofar as relevant, wrote the following to Stichting Permens:
“"
Nuisance/fire/drug offenses
Your client causes many problems.These are drug-related.There are many
Junks/drug users at the Lord [defendant].For example, statements from various
Local residents (living at multiple addresses).Their statements show, among other things, that;
- Deals and drugs are used in the home;
- There is a lot of fighting in and near the home by your client and through his visit;
- There is a lot of shouting;
- objects are thrown with objects;
- Every once in a while, people who come to visit are banging on your way to visit your
client.Sometimes visitors also knock on the windows of local residents;
- Your client and his visit express threats to local residents;
- Police regularly visit your client;and
- There have been fire/arson at the home of your
Client (on 11 Januari 2022 and recently, on October 25, 2022).
The nuisance takes place both during the day and deep into the night.
The nuisance has a major impact on the neighborhood;Local residents - tenants of Stadgenoot - no longer feel safe, sleep poorly and are anxious.
Summons
Given the above, I summon your organization on behalf of Stadgenoot for the Lord
to place [defendant] at a different address and then the house empty and evacuated
and to deliver free use and user rights to Stadgenoot.It is not possible
To place a new client in the home.The local residents have the latter
Time had too much suffering from aggressive and inconvenient behavior.Stadgenoot now wants grip
have to use the home (she wants to choose a resident who is appropriate
for the house).A resident whose townsman is convinced that he is not
will be guilty of nuisance-based behavior.(...) ”.
2.12.
By letter of 29 November 2022, Stichting Permens canceled the Care and Services Agreement and the subject to the subject with [defendant] by December 29, 2022, because [defendant] did not succeed in improving his behavior despite several warnings and a last chance and he duringThe time-out has been in the home anyway.Due to the holidays, the end date of the agreements has been resisted to January 16, 2023.
2.13.On February 14, 2023, two employees of Stichting Permens visited the Orteliusstraat to speak with local residents.Three local residents did not want to make an explanation.A local resident has stated anonymously to experience a lot of nuisance from junky types and therefore feel less safe.Another residents has stated anonymously that many junks arrive at the door of [defendant] and that they ring the bell at [defendant] at night causing the night's rest.Furthermore, since the fire at [defendant], this neighbor declares to sleep with clothes so that he/she can leave quickly.Another residents who did mention her name stated as follows:
“I am furious and he knows (249).He is such a nasty man, he lights them up.I recently had a conversation with an addict who told me that he is going to the neighbor and then have to give money and that he should come back in an hour.Then he comes back after an hour and then the neighbor is not there.Then argues and despair arises, causing the addicts to ring the bell everywhere and cause nuisance.I understand that his door has been set on fire, he lights them up!And those addicts are sick, hey, he just abuses them.And that there are people in the street who are moving for this, I can't reach that with my head.(...) ”.
2.14.
[name 2], employee care and nuisance at Stadgenoot, stated during the oral hearing that the police were at the door with [defendant] during the weekend of 18 and 19 February 2023.
3
The dispute
3.1.
Permens Foundation is in summary - to order the administrator ([defendant]):
I. to clear and evacuate the house on pain of a penalty, in the absence of which the Permens Foundation is authorized to achieve the evacuation itself if necessary with the help of the strong arm and at the expense of the administrator ([defendant]);
Ii.to pay € 649.83 per month up to and including the day of the eviction;
III.In the procedural and follow-up costs, both plus statutory interest.
3.2.
The Permens Foundation states the following for this.[Defendant] has only been assigned the property in the context of the provision of care and guidance by Stichting Permens.The Permens Agreement with [defendant] is a mixed agreement, because of the two elements: care and habitation.The agreement concluded between the parties states that the provision of care is the prevailing element.[defendant] therefore does not appeal to rent protection.[Defendant] is not accompanied by.It has proved too vulnerable and/or insufficiently resilient to stop the run -up of drug users in his home.Local residents have been experiencing nuisance for a long time.The nuisance reports persist and are of such a nature that Stadgenoot does not want to continue the lease with the Permens Foundation.The Permens Foundation has warned [defendant] in vain that if the nuisance did not stop, he would have to leave the house.The sublease agreement was also terminated by cancellation of the Care and Services Agreement.The Permens Foundation will endeavor to find an alternative place for [defendant].
3.3.
[defendant] has put the following defense.The Permens Foundation has no urgent interest.The nuisance stopped months ago.[defendant] caused no inconvenience himself.It was caused by third parties who came to visit him, when his brother temporarily lived with him.She brother was terminally ill and died in October/November 2022.The nuisance giving visitors were friends of his brother.[defendant] is now trying to keep these people out of his home and they come by less and less often.[Defendant] sees himself as a care provider and offers help a third party that come to him.It has always been the same person who complained about [defendant].That is his neighbor and he can't do it.[Defendant] has normal contact with the other local residents.[Defendant] has received insufficient support from Stichting Permens to solve the problems.Foundation Permens has also not helped him sufficiently in finding a day care.
3.4.
The statements of the parties are discussed below, insofar as relevant.
4
The assessment
4.1.
In summary proceedings, a claim for evacuation is only assignable if it is sufficiently plausible that the soil judge also assigns the claim and if the claimant cannot be expected that it awaits the outcome of a substantive procedure.
4.2.The Supervisory Agreement concluded between the parties and the agreement attached to that agreement to that Agreement and Services are a mixed agreement.These agreements cannot be seen separately and should be considered as a whole of coherent commitments, whereby the agreements regarding the guidance to independent living forms the essence of the legal relationship between Stichting Permens and [defendant].The house is by Stichting Permens to [defendant] outside the regular distribution distribution to be rented out to reach the joint goal of the parties, the independent inhabitation of the house by [defendant].The sublease agreement explicitly states that [defendant] needs care and assistance, which is linked to the renting of the home and that the sublease agreement is terminated when the care and services agreement ends.The foregoing means that [defendant] cannot invoke rent protection and that if the counseling agreement ends, the sublease agreement will also end.
4.3.
The house in which [defendant] lives is a so -called folding home.The property is rented out with a view to healthcare or services and is a means to reach the goal (independent living).If [defendant] shows that he can live independently, the lease concluded between Permens and Stadgenoot foundation will be converted in the name of [defendant] ("folded" to direct rental).A folding home is the final phase of a guidance process from social relief and guided living to independent living.
4.4.
What the parties have submitted and submitted to documents have shown that [defendant] is unable to live independently in the home.For the time being, it is sufficiently plausible that [defendant] (and his visit) caused nuisance and nuisance to other local residents.[Defendant] is unable to keep people who have nothing to look for there from the home.This is partly because [defendant] sees himself as a counselor, so that unwanted visitors precisely go to the home.Although the direct neighbor of [defendant] complained to the Permens Foundation, it follows from Stichting Permens Foundation and the letter from Stadgenoot follows that other local residents also experience serious nuisance from [defendant] and his visit.That the nuisance only played when his brother temporarily lived with him was substantiated by Stichting Permens and not substantiated by [defendant].For the time being, it is considered that Stichting Permens has rightly canceled that agreement against (ultimately) January 16, 2023. That means that the sublease agreement has also been terminated on that date.
4.5.
[defendant] also thinks he needs more care.However, the defense of [defendant] that Stichting Permens has insufficiently assisted him in keeping people in his home and finding a day care does not apply.The ambulatory supervisor of Stichting Permens, an employee of Stadgenoot and the local police officer, tried to help [defendant] to reduce the nuisance.The ambulatory supervisor has also made several proposals to [defendant] for a day care and given leaflets to him for this.In this phase of the care process - the final step to full independence - it is up to [defendant] and then take action himself.In view of the character of a folding home, the Permens Foundation does not have to be expected to offer [defendant] a long -term and intensive guidance process.
4.6.
The Permens Foundation has an urgent interest in the eviction claim.For the time being it is likely that local residents experience serious nuisance from [defendant] and feel unsafe by him and his visitors.
4.7.
In this state of affairs, it is sufficiently plausible that the soil judge will grant a claim for evacuation.The requested facility will therefore be allocated, on the understanding that the eviction date is determined on 22 March 2023 at the latest.This does not mean that [defendant] will be on the street.If he leaves the house, he is expected to quickly go to a reception location, where he will be able to receive more intensive care.
4.8.
A penalty will be attached to the conviction.The Permens Foundation has an interest that [defendant] has an incentive to comply with this judgment.[defendant] will not be disadvantaged by the penalty if he leaves the home "voluntarily".However, the penalty will be maximized.
4.9.
The Permens Foundation also claims payment of [defendant] from € 649.83 per month up to and including the day he actually left the house.This claim has not been contradicted by [defendant] and will therefore also be allocated.
4.10.[defendant] will be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings as the unsuccessful party.The costs of the proceedings on the part of Stichting Permens are estimated at € 132.29 in summons costs, € 676.00 in court fees and € 1,079.00 in the lawyer salary.The follow -up costs and the claimed statutory interest are allocated in the manner as stated in the decision.
4.11.
The convictions are pronounced against the administrator, but can also be enforced against [defendant].
5
The decision
The preliminary relief judge
5.1.
orders the administrator ([defendant]) to vacate and leave the house at the [address] at the [address] at the latest on 22 March 2023 at the latest on 22 March 2023and to make the overall decision of the Permens Foundation and then abandon it, which evacuation can be achieved if necessary by the bailiff using the strong arm in accordance with the provisions of Article 555 EV. JO 444 Code of Civil Procedure, on penalty ofa penalty of € 500.00 per day or part thereof on which this conviction is not met, up to a maximum of € 5,000.00, has been reached,
5.2.
orders the administrator ([defendant]) to, if he does not voluntarily meet this conviction and the Permens Foundation, will bring about the eviction with the engagement of a bailiff, to the Permens Foundation to pay the costs of the eviction on screening of and in accordance with the specification ofthose costs in the official report of evacuation,
5.3.
orders the administrator ([defendant]) to pay € 649.83 per month (including service costs) up to and including the day that [defendant] has left the property or is evacuated,
5.4.
orders the administrator ([defendant]) to pay the costs of the proceedings on the part of the Permens Foundation to date at € 1,887.29, plus the statutory interest from fourteen days after service of this judgment,
5.5.
orders the administrator ([defendant]) to be estimated at € 173.00 in the lawyer's salary, on the condition that it has been served by this judgment, with an amount of € 90.00 in salarylawyer and the exploring costs of service of the decision, plus the statutory interest from fourteen days after service of this judgment,
5.6.
declares this judgment so far enforceable in stock,
5.7.
rejects it more or otherwise advanced.
This judgment was given by I.H.J.Konings, preliminary relief judge, assisted by M.F.van Grootheest, clerk, and pronounced in public on March 8, 2023.
1
1
Type: MVG
Coll: Ma