ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 1609
Share the pronunciation
ECLI: NL: RBDHA: 2022: 1609
Instance
Court of The Hague
Date of judgment
23-02-2022
Date of publication
04-03-2022
Case
C/09/611517/HA SA 21-425
Formal relationships
Appeal:
ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2023: 562
, Reinforcement/confirmation
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Special characteristics
First instance - Single
Contents indication
Convention of man for payment to wife of bridal gift from Bahar Azadi gold coins.
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Share
Enriched statement
Share the pronunciation
Pronunciation
judgment
Court of The Hague
Team Trade Team
Case number / Role number: C / 09 /611517 / HA SA 21-425
Judgment of February 23, 2022
in the case of
[the woman]
, in [place of residence 1]
Plaintiff,
lawyer mr. A. Hashem Jawaheri in Amsterdam,
in return for
[the man]
in [place of residence 2],
defendant,
Lawyer K. Mohasselzadeh in Voorburg, municipality of Leidschendam-Voorburg.
Parties are hereinafter referred to as the woman and the man.
1
The procedure
1.1.
The course of the procedure is evident from:
-
the summons of April 21, 2021, with productions;
-
the conclusion of answer, with productions;
-
the interlocutory judgment of December 1, 2021, in which an oral treatment was ordered;
-
the official report of oral treatment of 17 January 2022 and the documents mentioned therein.
1.2.
The official report of the oral treatment has been drawn up outside the presence of the parties.The parties have been given the opportunity to make a factual nature known to the court by letter.The woman took this opportunity by e-mail of January 24, 2022 and the man by e-mail of 3 February 2022.These letters are part of the process file and the verdict is pointed out with due observance of these letters, insofar as the corrections are of a factual nature.
1.3.
Finally, a date for pointing a judgment has been determined.
2
The assessment of women's claim
2.1.
Parties were married to each other on 1 August 2017 in Tehran, Iran.They signed a notarial marriage certificate during the marriage closure.In the marriage certificate they have agreed that the man owes the woman a bridal gift from 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins.
2.2.
By order of this court of 8 April 2021, the divorce between the parties was pronounced.
2.3.
The woman is now progressing from the man payment of 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins or an equivalent thereof, equal to € 96,255.90.The court will allocate the claim for payment of the 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins and condemn the man to pay it to the woman.This judgment is explained as follows.
Applicable law
2.4.
First of all, the court must judge what law applies to the woman's claim.The Court of Appeal of The Hague has ruled that the question of the existence of a claim to the bridal gift must be assessed under the right to which that claim was made, whereby as much as possible must be in line with the intention of the parties (see Court The Hague26 February 2014, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2014: 486).
2.5.
By concluding the marriage in Tehran, Iranian law applies to the marriage of the parties.The circumstance that the woman had the Afghan and not the Iranian nationality at that time does not make it different.The provision regarding the bridal gift included in the marriage certificate signed by the parties must therefore be assessed under Iranian law.
2.6.
In the decision of 8 April 2021 of this court, in which the divorce of the parties has been pronounced, it was stipulated that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.The woman appealed to this decision and has appealed that not the Dutch but the Iranian law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.However, this procedure is not important for the outcome of the present procedure.After all, the claim of the woman under the bridal gift does not fall in a possible matrimonial property community that would exist between the parties, but must be assessed apart from that.See also another decision of the Court of Appeal of The Hague, in which the Court of Appeal explicitly stipulated this (Court of The Hague 28 May 2019, ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2019: 1818).This means that the court does not have to stick to its decision in these proceedings until the applicable right to the matrimonial property regime has been finalized.
Interim judgment
2.7.
In its ruling of 26 February 2014, the Court of Appeal of The Hague also stipulated that the claim for payment of the bridal gift is at all times, both during and after marriage.Contrary to what the man has put forward, the circumstance that the parties have since become separate does not mean that the woman's claim is no longer due.
2.8.Also the fact that the woman in the divorce procedure had initially submitted a request regarding the bridal gift, but this request later withdrawn does not mean that she can no longer make a claim on that.After all, the judge has not yet ruled on the woman's claim on this point.
2.9.
In the conclusion of answer, the man, without further explanation, has still argued that the woman did not comply with the obligations that she signed and accepted that also arise from the same marriage certificate.He gave an explanation during the oral treatment.The court understands that the man states that the woman in Iran cannot obtain divorce, other than by offering compensation to the man, because she has not met her obligations from the marriage certificate.Because it is customary in Iran that the bridal gift is only paid for a divorce, the compensation would in this case consist of giving up the claim of women on the bridal gift.If the court would condemn the man in these proceedings for payment of the bridal gift, this would result in the bridal gatto no longer being used as compensation in the event of a divorce in Iran.To explain his statements, the man referred to a report from Maastricht University (hereinafter: the report).
1
This is a public report accessible via the internet.The court sees no reason to disregard this report.In view of what the court is considering with regard to this report, she also sees no reason to give the woman the opportunity to be expressed on this report.
2.10.
This report describes, among other things, how a divorce can be recognized under Dutch law in Iran and what conditions must be met for a divorce in Iran.The report also includes a description of the bridal gift: “
The bridal gift is the compulsory gift of the man to the woman as part of the Islamic marriage agreement.The bridal gift usually consists of a sum of money, gold or jewelry.(...) According to Islamic Law, the bridal gift is one of the wife's ability.From the moment the marriage is consumed, the woman can fully claim the bridal gift.Usually a part of the bridal gift is paid when entering into the marriage and the majority, the so -called deferred bridal gift, later paid in installments or in one go depending on any agreements made about it.This delayed bridal gift (the remainder of the bridal gift) must in any case be paid when the marriage between men and women is dissolved, such as due to divorce or death.
"
2.11.
The court also ignores the man's objection.First of all, the Court of Appeal has already ruled that a wedding gift is due at all times.In addition, in the description quoted above, the court does not read that it is customary for the bridal gift to be paid only in the event of divorce.For Iranian law, which the report is also explicitly about, no other description of the bridal gift is included in the report.The court reads precisely in the report that the bridal gift is already one of the wife's assets.This means that she rightly progresses the man's wedding.
2.12.
The circumstance that the man can want compensation from the woman, if she wants a divorce under Iranian law, does not change the court's opinion.After all, the man can still desire this compensation if the woman in Iran wishes the divorce, even if he may have already paid the bridal to the woman.
2.13.
During the oral treatment, the man explained why he thinks the woman should pay compensation in the event of a divorce in Iran.He explained that it was never the intention of the parties that he had to pay a bridal gift.According to him, the woman first let him pay a lot of money to get her to the Netherlands, after which she subsequently wrongly reported mistreatment and left him.The latter is evident from the fact that he was acquitted of this indictment, according to the man.He did not submit a claim on this in these proceedings, so that the court cannot take this into account in its opinion.
Claim in euros?
2.14.The woman has demanded payment from 114 Bahar Azadi Gold Coins or the equivalent in euros.She has mentioned an amount of € 96,255.90.The court reads in the marriage certificate that an amount of 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins has been agreed as a bridal gift.During the oral treatment, the man has contradicted that 114 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins are worth € 96,255.90.The woman did not explain how she came to this amount.In recent case law, 110 Bahar Azadi Golden Coins are assigned a value between € 30,000 and € 45,000.In view of this, the court is of the opinion that the woman has not sufficiently explained its claim with regard to the amount in euros.The court will therefore only allocate the claim for transfer of the Bahar Azadi Golden Coins.
Proceedings
2.15.
In the fact that the parties are ex-spivers, the court sees reason to compensate for the costs of the proceedings between them, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.
3
The decision
The court:
3.1.
condemns the man for a transfer of 114 Bahar Azadi gold coins to women;
3.2.
declares this judgment so far enforceable in stock;
3.3.
compensates for the costs between the parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs;
3.4.
Displays the lake or different advanced.
This judgment was given by A.C. Bordes and pronounced in public on February 23, 2022.
1
No longer chained to the marriage!Legal instruments that can prevent or resolve marital imprisonment, part I: subproject 2 and part II: subproject 3, from Pauline Kruiniger, Maastricht University.